Deuteros: The Next Millennium - Guide

DEUTEROS COMPLETE DOCS AND SOLVE 

Introduction - 

These Docs Consist of the Description of All the ICONS which explain how 
to play the game, and a SOLVE...since everything in this game happens in 
a order according to the players action it is almost impossible to write
a 100% step by step solve. Sorry if you find errors in the docs or 
something that I forgot to include but I was too lazy to go over the docs
to see if I missed something. Also sorry about the time it took me to write
these docs but that is how it is when YOU MAKE THE DOCS yourself as you play.
Well last thing thanks to Skid Row for cracking This Awesome game.



Control Panel Icons
-------------------
At the top left hand corner of the screen you have a bunch of icons.
Some of these icons you will not have at the beginning but they will 
appear as you advance in the game. Here is what they are and what they do.

 
Time Advance   -    click on this and it will advance time until you press 
                    the mouse button again. You can also advance time by
                    clicking on the bar at the bottom of the screen that
                    tells the year, # of days, and the stardate.

Master Control   -    shows you all the orbital factories, interplanetary
                      spacecrafts, and starships that you have in that 
                      system. You can access any of the above just by 
                      pressing  on them.

Stocktaker   -    clicking on this will show you a list of all the minerals
                  and all the orbital factories that you have. Pick any 
                  mineral and it will show what orbital factory has it and 
                  how many tons it has. There are also two icons at the 
                  bottom, one is Switch Storerooms and the other Team Roster
                  On/Off.
        
  Switch Storerooms   -    shows your orbital factories and a bar at the
                           right hand side with red buttons. Each red button
                           indicates an item. Clicking on a red button will
                           show you a picture of the item you selected, its
                           name, and what orbital factory has it and in what
                           quantities. Click on the switch storerooms and 
                           then click on the Team Roster On/Off icon.

  Team Roster On/Off   -    shows you all the teams you have (Pilots,
                            Researchers, Producers), how many people in each
                            one, their location, and their rank. At the
                            bottom there are two arrows (previous page and 
                            next page) which are used when you have more 
                            teams than can fit on the screen.
     
              Rank     Name        # of People     Location
             ------   ------      -------------   ----------               
              PRF     RICHIE            250          EARTH
      
                                                                              
Deposit Analysis   -    shows you all the planets that are in the system.
                        Clicking on a planet will show you all the minerals
                        it has and all the moons that are around it, if any.
                        Now you can click on a moon and see what minerals
                        it has. If you have an orbital factory around that
                        planet it will show you a picture of it at the 
                        bottom. Click on the planet again to zoom out. At
                        the top the screen it tells you the system you are in
                        and the planet you selected. Later in the game you 
                        can click on the sun which will zoom out even more
                        and show you all the other systems. Click on a system
                        and it zooms in showing you all the planets that are
                        in that system.

Disk Access   -   at the top of the screen there is a timer showing how long
                   you are playing and the last time that you saved your 
                   game. There are also some icons in the middle of the
                   screen and they are:

  Disk Directory - clicking on it will show you all the saved games that you
                   have on a disk.

  Format Disk - format disk.
 
  L.E.D. Toggle - turns led on/off.

  Run Demo! - suppose to run a demo of the game but it does work, at least
              not on my amiga.
 
  Save And Load Game - clicking on the green arrow next to the disk will load
                       a game and the red arrow will save a game. Clicking
                       on a game will allow you to name it. You should use
                       at least two save disks in case one gets messed up.
 
  Shuttle And IOS Threshold - tells the auto cargo computer (will get later 
                              in the game) when to refuel. Clicking on the +
                              and - signs you can set at how many tons of
                              fuel the computer should refuel at.

News Bulletins - tells you the news reports (almost useless) except maybe for
                 the little screen at the bottom (Repeat Last Bulletin) which
                 shows you the last message that the scientists left you in
                 case you forgot what they said.

Earth City   -    takes you back to Earth city (I will explain all the icons
                  there later).

Star Selector - (Later in the game) Shows you the different systems. Clicking
                on a system will take you there showing you all the
                factories, IOSs, and starships (just like the Master control
                except that this is for other systems) that you have there,
                if any.


Various Locations 
-----------------
These are the locations on Earth and also on Orbital Factories. You will
not have some of these at the beginning but they will appear as you advance 
in the game.

Production - lets you produce any of the things that your scientists
             developed. Ok, at the right side you have a bar (same one as in
             the Stocktaker) that shows you all the things that you can
             produce (the list will increase as your scientists develop
             more items). Green buttons indicate items that you can produce,
             red buttons indicate items that you can't produce due to the
             leaders low rank, yellow buttons indicate items that can only
             be produced in orbit. Moving the mouse over the buttons will
             show you a picture of the item in the book and its name at the
             top of the screen. Clicking on an item with a green button will
             start producing it unless there is not enough resources to 
             produce it. Then it will tell you what resources you are missing
             or have too little of. At the bottom of the screen it shows you
             the leaders name, his rank, and the number of staff (maximum of
             200). There is also an icon next to this whick allows you to 
             send the leader and his staff to bay where you can transport
             him to a different factory.

Shuttle - clicking on this will put you inside a shuttle (if you have any).
          Also you cannot set a course for a shuttle it can only travel
          between an orbital factory and the surface of a planet. Here you
          have the following icons that a shuttle has:

  Service Ship - puts you outside the shuttle so that you can service it 
                 (the craft must be in a bay to be able to service it). I 
                 will describe it under the Shuttle Bay Icon.

  Supply Computer - (Later in the game) Clicking on this allows you to 
                    program the computer so that it will keep transporting
                    different minerals by itself. Here you will see a list
                    of all the minerals and dots on the left and right of
                    mineral. It also shows you all the way on the left and 
                    right side the two locations between which the shuttle
                    is transporting the minerals. Ok, the left hand side
                    location and its arrow is allways shown in green and the
                    right hand side location and its arrow is shown in brown.
                    If you want to transport a mineral from the left hand 
                    side location to the right hand side location you click
                    on the left side of the mineral and a green dot should
                    appear. Then click on the Engage A.C.C. icon at the 
                    bottom and the computer will start transporting it. If
                    you want to transport a mineral from the right side 
                    location to the left you do the opposite. You click on
                    the right side of the mineral and a brown dot should 
                    appear. Then Engage the computer and it will start 
                    transporting the mineral. At the bottom there are four
                    icons:

     Engage A.C.C. - engages the auto cargo computer.

     Disengage A.C.C - disengages the auto cargo computer.

     Complete Cycle - if you have the computer transporting three minerals
                      and it is only on the first one and you want to
                      disengage it but you want it to transport all three
                      minerals first then you click on this icon so that the
                      computer will transport all three resources and then 
                      stop.
 
     Clear Setting - clears all that you selected.

  Dock - click on this and the shuttle will dock after advancing a day.

  Land - land

  Launch - launch

  Pod Mounts - shows you what pod you have and what is in it. If you have
               a part of an orbital factory in a pod then clicking on it 
               will activate it.  

  Switch Views - switches views between an information screen which tells 
                 you what the shuttle is carrying, how much fuel it has,
                 its location, its pilot, etc. and a picture showing where
                 you are located.

Training - here you have three doors for recruiting different teams. One is
           researchers, one for producers, and one for marines (pilots).
           On the left side in a bar in shows you how many people you have
           for recruiting (you start with 6000). In each door there are two
           arrows (return to pool and recruit). Click on the recruit arrow
           for researchers until it reaches its maximum (100). Then pass 
           days and the door will close. Wait until it opens which means 100
           researshers have been recruited. Then click on the arrow again and
           recruit another 100 (you can have 250 researchers as one team,
           200 producers as one team, and 41 marines as one team). When you
           recruit researchers they are automatically transfered to Research,
           producers are transfered to Production, and marines are transfered
           to Shuttle Bay.    
       
        Team      Ranks      Team       Ranks       Team         Ranks
      -------   --------   ---------   --------    -----------   --------
      Marines -  Pilot     Producers - Technician  Researchers - Apprentice 
              -  Captain             - Doctor                  - Engineer
              -  Admiral             - Professor               - Expert
              -  Warlord             



Research - this is where the scientists research all the cool stuff. On the
           right side you have buttons that show all the things that you can 
           research. Green buttons indicate items that have already been
           researched, red buttons indicate items that were not researched,
           and yellow buttons indicate items that are in the middle of
           being researched (started but not finished). Click on an item
           and the scientists will start researching it. At the top it tells
           you the name of the item, the tech level, and how many percent 
           your scientists have researched. Once the item is researched it
           tells you its mass and what minerals you need to build it. It
           also tells you where the item may be produced (in orbit or on
           Earth). At the bottom of the screen you have the leaders name,
           his rank, and number of staff. Some of the items, later in the 
           game, you will not be able to research until your leader advances 
           in his rank. 

Shuttle Bay - here you make new shuttles, equip them, assign their crew, and
              refuel them. At the top you have a New Shuttle icon. Click on
              it and it will raise a new shuttle if you have build one. Now
              at the top you have a dismantle icon which will lower the 
              shuttle but it will not destroy it. There is also a kind of a 
              map showing all the section of the shuttle (the crew section,
              pod mounting, and engine mounting). Just click on any section
              and the big shuttle in the middle will move to that section.
              Here is a descrition of all the sections.

  Crew Section - here you can see the front of the shuttle and 4 vacant spots
                 to the left of it. You should first train 41 Marines and
                 they will appear on the first vacant spot. Click on the 
                 Marines (assign crew) and they will show up under the 
                 shuttle. If you want to remove the pilot just click on one
                 of the vacant spots (remove ship's crew). After assigning
                 a crew there is a bar at the bottom with MeH written next
                 to it. Click on the + sign (fuel ship) until it reaches
                 250 tons (max. amount of fuel). If you have no fuel you must
                 first research Hydrogen Methanol Fuel (MeH fuel). Once you
                 have it researched your mining rigs will start producing
                 it. Later in the game when your scientists develop an Auto
                 Cargo Computer an icon with ACC written on it will appear
                 next to the shuttle. This icon is used to install the A.C.C.
                 unto the shuttle. You can also access the shuttle just by
                 clicking on it which will put you inside.             
 
  Pod Mount - in this section of the shuttle you can install three different
              pods to transport anything you want between a planet and an
              orbital factory. Under the shuttle you have three icon
              representing the three pods (supply pod, tool pod, and 
              team pod). 
                
    Install Supply Pod - supply pods are used to carry minerals only and 
                         have a maximum capacity of 250 tons. Once you have 
                         a supply pod installed click on it and pick the 
                         mineral you want to take (you can only carry 250 
                         tons or less of only one mineral per pod). Click
                         the right mouse button to exit the menu and under 
                         the pod you will see the name of the mineral you 
                         picked and how many tons are in there.                         

    Install Tool Pod - tool pods are used to carry items and equipment such
                       as derricks and orbital factory sections. Once you
                       have it installed click on it and a menu of all the 
                       equipment you can take will appear (the list will get
                       bigger as your scientists develop more items). Pick
                       an item and click the right mouse button to exit. Like
                       in the supply pod the name of the item that you picked
                       will appear under the pod.

    Install Team Pod - team pods are used to carry either producers or
                       marines to other stations. Once you have the pod 
                       installed click on it and four vacant spots will 
                       appear. If you have someone in shuttle bay they will
                       appear on the first vacant spot. Click on them and
                       they will be transfered to the team pod. Only one 
                       team can be carried in a pod. Press the right mouse
                       button to exit. Below the pod you can see the name
                       and occupation of the dudes that are inside.
    
    Engine Mounting -  the only thing here that you can do is install the
                       engine into the craft. There is an icon at the bottom
                       called install drive unit, just press it and the 
                       engine will be installed.

Resource - here it tells you what resources the planet has. At the bottom 
           right corner there is an icon called Add Mining Rig. When you
           finish building a few derricks you should go here and add rigs
           so that they will start mining. You can have a maximum of 8 rigs
           mining on each planet. Each derrick produces 1 ton of each
           mineral per day but in some cases it may produce more.

Minig Store - here there is a list of all the minerals and how many tons of
              each you have in stores on that perticular planet or orbital 
              factory. To the left there is a bunch of buttons just like
              in Production and Stocktaker, each one representing a tool
              or some equipment. Click on the first button (Resource Mining
              Rig) and it will tell you how many you can build with the
              available resources. If there is not enough tons of a 
              particular mineral then the mineral will be highlighted in red.
              At the bottom of the screen there is Switch Storeroom icon. 

  Switch Storeroom - clicking on this will cause a list of all the tools
                     and equipment that you have researched and can build to 
                     appear and also telling you how many of each you have in
                     stores. Click on any tool and an information box will
                     appear showing a picture of it and a brief description
                     of what it is and what it does. Here is the list and
                     description of all the tools that are in the game. 
                     Remember that most of these tools you will not have at 
                     the beginning of the game but would probably want to.
                         
    Resource Mining Rig - (Derrick) fully automated ore recovery and refining
                          unit. Can adapt to all known elements and is semi-
                          portable to allow location on any mining site.

    Shuttle Chasis - (S Chasis) surface to orbit workhorse. Pod mounting
                     allows maximum of 250 ton payload.

    Shuttle Drive Unit - (S Drive) short burst drive which requires Hydrogen
                         Methanol Fuel (MeH).

    Orbital Factory Section - (Of Frame) partial framework for construction 
                              of orbital factories. Computer control handles
                              positioning sequence to ensure correct locking
                              of the 8 sections. There still must be a pilot
                              on board to be able to install he sections.

    Tool & Equip. Mounting - (Tool Pod) for haulage and mounting of tool or
                             equipment. Mounting is linked to ship's cockpit
                             allowing the crew to control any item carried.
                             
    Supply Pod - for all material haulage. Standard fitted for use on a 
                 shuttle. Unit has a single cavity so may only hold one type
                 of material. If you want to dump the cargo while in flight
                 just go inside the ship and click on the pod then click on
                 Ditch Contents.

    Cryo Pod - for haulage of teams such as pilots or producers. Personnel
               are held in stasis while inside the pod. This also protects
               its occupants from disease and aging.

    I.O.S. Chasis - (I Chasis) interplanetary operations spacecraft. Three
                    pod mountings allow maximum of 750 ton payload. The
                    I.O.S. is the same as the shuttle except that it has
                    3 pod mountings and can travel to other planets. You can
                    also fit the A.C.C. to it to make transporting minerals
                    easier. When you are inside the I.O.S. there is an icon
                    at the bottom called Set Course that the shuttle does not
                    have. Click on it an a system chart will appear. Click
                    on a planet just like in Deposit Analysis and the course
                    is set.

    I.O.S. Drive Unit - (I Drive) long duration drive unit. Requires Hydrogen
                        Methanol Fuel.

    Auto Cargo Computer - (A.C.C) Fit and Forget! Allows programming of 
                          shuttle and IOS for automated stock haulage.
                          Settings available for balancing stocks between
                          destinations. Cockpit mounted.

    Hydralic Grapple - (Grapple) for retrieving small objects of up to 250T.
                       Must be pod mounted.

    Auto Operations Computer - (A.O.C.) automates production processes, so
                               there is no need for Artisans. May be 
                               programmed for on/off or repeating production.
                               To produce something only once click on the 
                               button until it becomes yellow. If you want
                               it to keep producing it more than once just
                               click on the button until it becomes green.

    Installation Repair Equip. - (Bandaid) for the repair of abondoned or
                                 derelict surface ststions. Shuttle bay must
                                 still be operative! Must be pod mounted.

    Asteroid Mining Attachment - (A.M.A.) for surface mining of large
                                 asteroids . Process requires access to an 
                                 empty supply pod. May be A.C.C. controlled.
                                 The asteroid must have a mass greater than
                                 10,000 tons.

    Resource Station Section - (R Frame) parial framework for construction of
                               surface stations. Computer control handles
                               positioning sequence to ensure correct locking
                               of the 2 sections.

    Communication Adaptor - (Comms Pod) Methanoid origin. Translates verbal
                            communication into HUD text. Technical Analysis
                            also reveals holographic image processing.

    IOS Battle Drone - (IOS Drone) special chasis incorporating one fusion 
                       laser. Flight controlled via flagship drone computer.

    Drone Fleet Control Comp. - (D.F.C.C.) carried by fleet flagship.
                                Controls fuel and drone dispersal. Automatic
                                switching to combat mode when alien fleet
                                detected. This computer which controls the 
                                drones takes up all 3 pod mountings on an IOS
                                and 6 pod mountings on an SSG. You can have
                                up to 200 drones in one fleet. When you start
                                building drones they automatically go to the
                                drone pool in space. After you install the 
                                computer, take off and press the Battle 
                                Computer icon inside the ship. You will then
                                see a picture of a drone, two icons and the
                                number of drones in the pool. One of the 
                                icons is Add to Fleet which will add a drone
                                to the fleet. The other one is Remove to Pool
                                which will remove a drone. You can have an 
                                unlimited amount of drones in the pool but
                                only 200 in a fleet. Each drone adds 7 to the
                                fleet power making a total of 1400 if you 
                                have 200 drones in the fleet. If a Warlord
                                is the pilot of the ship then each drone's
                                power will be increased by 3. For an SSG
                                there is a special type of drone called a
                                star drone which automatically adds 10 to the
                                fleet power even if a Warlord is not the
                                pilot. If the pilot is a Warlord the strength
                                for each drone is still 10. The only 
                                advantage to the star drone is that it can 
                                travel to other solar systems. An SSG can 
                                only have star drones and an IOS can only 
                                have IOS battle drones. Also, when the 
                                computer is installed on the ship, the ship
                                takes ten times as much fuel (10 ton of fuel
                                = 1 tons of fuel).

    Self-Destruct Mechanism - (S.D.M.) Methanoid origin. Activated by 
                              throwing respective levers on reactor and 
                              cooling system. This is used when the war 
                              between you and the Methanoids starts. You just
                              install it and if they attack that factory and
                              you can't get your drones there in time then 
                              you pull the two levers and it nukes the whole
                              place.

    Mass Transciever - (M.T.X.) Methanoid origin. Allows transmission of 
                       inanimate objects to any receiver. Technical analysis
                       not understood. Once you have two of these go to
                       Stores on the orbital factory. Then click on Switch
                       Storerooms and the MTX will appear with a list of all
                       the tools, minerals and equipment in the middle that
                       you can transport, six icons at the bottom and all the
                       other solar systems and factories you have. Here are 
                       the descriptions of all the icons.
       
      Restore Settings - resets everything that you have selected to be 
                         transported.

      Switch Storerooms - just switches storerooms.

      Clear Settings - does the same thing as Restore Settings.

      Transmit Everything - marks all the minerals and tools that you see on
                            the menu.

      Balance Everything - marks everything that you see on the menu equally
                           so that when it starts transporting both of the
                           factories will have the same amount of each item
                           or mineral.

      Scroll Up/Down - scrolls the menu up or down.

      Now if you want to transport, for instance iron, from Earth to Moon go
      to the MTX that is on Earth and mark iron on the left side. Then select 
      Sun as the solar system and then Moon as the receiver. Pass a day and 
      all the iron you had on Earth will be transported to the Moon. If you 
      want both Earth and the Moon to have the same amount of iron then mark
      both sides of iron and pass a day. The computer will add both of the
      factories' supply of iron and then send half of it to Earth and half to
      the Moon.

    S.C.G Chasis - (G Chasis) Star Class Galleon. Methanoid Origin. Six pod
                   mountings allow maximum of 1500 ton payload. This ship 
                   uses a different fuel called Helium Deuterium Fuel (HeD).
                   There is only one planet in the solar system (our) that
                   can produce this fuel. 

    S.C.G Drive Unit - (Star Drive) fusion drive unit for interstellar 
                       travel. Methanoid origin. Requires HeD fuel.
     
    S.C.G Battle Drone - (Star Drone) special chasis incorporating 2 fusion
                         lasers. More powerful version of the IOS Drone and
                         capable of intersteller travel. Flight controlled
                         via flagship drone computer.

    Prejudice Torpedo Launcher - (P.T.L) fires a torpedo loaded with 100T of
                                 fuel from the host ship tanks. Detonation
                                 is triggered when the predicted outcome is
                                 prejudiced against enemy drones. Cockpit
                                 mounted. When you install this to a ship and
                                 attack a planet, click on the Battle 
                                 Computer and there will be an icon that
                                 looks like a torpedo. When you see that the
                                 enemy drones are closesly packed together
                                 launch the torpedo. You can only fire two of
                                 these if you have full fuel.

    Pulse Blast Laser - (Blaser) highly destructive pulse weapon. Requires
                        at least 3 chasis units for correct operation. This
                        is an awesome weapon for defending factories. Not
                        only does it destroy the enemy drones but also the
                        ship that carries the weapon. This does not require
                        any pilots and you cannot fly anywhere with it once
                        it is installed.

    Sonic Blaster - (Blaster) Methanoid origin. Fusion powered unit. Emits
                    pulses at present intervals and frequencies. Power 
                    adjuster fitted. This is NOT a weapon even though the 
                    scientists say it is. All it does is play music.

    Prison Pod - (?) I did not get this in the game so cannot explain it. It
                 is an optional part of the game.

    UNKNOWN ITEM - (Unknown) Composition - Unknown  Function - Unknown 
                   Mounting suitable for Tool Pod. I cannot tell you anything
                   about this or it would ruin the game!

Space Bay - same as shuttle bay

Spacedock - same as shuttle bay except that it is used for IOSs and SCGs.

Self-Destruct Mechanism - this is used later in the game to nuke the whole
                          factory to stop the Methanoids from getting it. To
                          the left are two switches (Cooling System and 
                          Reactor Control). Flipping both of these will 
                          activate a 12 second countdown and then nuke the
                          whole factory. To deactivate the countdown just
                          flip both of the switches again.


Quickstart Guide
------------------
typed by lifeschool

Click the research icon and choose the first option. Then go into the elevator 
doors room and choose maximum people for all three doors. Click to advance
time and the doors will close. Return to the research room and advance time.
You should start to research the mining rig.  Once this is done, choose the 
second item to research. Advance time. Click on the shuttle bay and click on
the blue guys, and they will go into your production factory. Click on the first
item in your factory, and advance time. An image of the mining rig should start
to appear in a window on the left. When the item is done, the image will 
change to a storage pod. After building the rig/derrick, go to the surface 
resources screen and click the crate to deploy the rig on the surface. You will
need 8 in total. Research each item, and then build each item. Once you have
one of each item, go to the shuttle bay and click the wooden crate to build a
new shuttle. Click the red guys waiting in the shuttle bay, and they will go into
the shuttle to pilot it. Return to the elevators, and hire more blues and red guys.
Put a tail on the shuttle and a tool rack, then select the rack and choose Frame.
Launch, advance time. Click the tool bay as you are in orbit to deploy the frame. 
Repeat this x7 more times to build a space station. Take the blue guys to the
station inside a cryo pod. Click on them inside the orbital shuttle bay to drop 
them into the factory. Research the Interplanetary ship and tail. Build mining
rigs on the surface of earth, then click on the mining icon and deploy them on
the surface. Deploy all 8 rigs.  Remember to hire more red guys so the earth
shuttle bay is full. Research and build an ACC and fit this to the shuttle. Fit a
cargo pod. Click the cockpit of the shuttle, and then the flashing red light. Click 
everything to make every item green, and then hit the first icon below to start. 
Research the AOC. Build an AOC on earth and also the space station. 
Now you can click on an item to build, yellow is once, green means
continually build it, and advance time, this will build without needing a team.
The team is now in the shuttle bay. Build several interplanetary ships
and 8 more Frames. Take them out to The Moon using the plot course icon.
Deploy the frames to build a station around the Moon. Then build a shuttle
and fit it with a bandaid and deploy this on the surface. This will start the 
factory. Normally you would need to build x2 R-Frames, and deploy those on 
the surface to start a factory. Build 5 bases (see below). You can build 
frameworks for more space stations, but if you complete any more than 5, 
the war will begin.

Objectives: 
1. Research and Build all of your resources on Earth, make a space station
2. Build a space station and a mining resource on the moon
3. Build x5 stations and bases in total (Earth, Moon, Leda, Titan, Ganymede).
4. Grind at least 25,000-30K of the main materials, 6k platinum etc, (see solution)
5. Dock with Jupiter alien station with just a grapple. Return, click to invent comms
5b Fit comms pod and return. Click it. Trade x15 items, get laser plans, WAR BEGINS
6. Use x4 stations to build drones, and make x4 drone ships with 200 each
7. Go to Jupiter with a battle ship, dock, take off quick, invent panic button plans
8. Go to Neptune and dock, disarm the panic button, find and get teleport plans
9. Take over the Sol system, including Pluto. Teleport all stocks (see below).
10. Invent and build Star Ships, fit them with star ship drones
11. See side mission below
12. Attack other systems and teleport their resources, until the aliens give up

Side Mission:
Take a shuttle or ship with a grapple into orbit around earth. Scan for the
mystery item. Collect it. The aliens will tell you the planet and the system
where you can find the next part. You will need a star ship to find them.

Teleporter:
This is located in the normal store rooms of each station, but from now on
you wont be able to toggle inventory with stocks. To see your items, the
only way now is with the teleport screen. Click the item(s) to teleport from
that location, then click the destination system, then the target station.
Now you can advance time, and those items will be sent. To balance stocks
between two locations, select the items but also click on the brown icon to
the right of the item names. Do the same thing at the target station. 
Surface Resources will now be teleported to any stores with a teleporter, so
no need for shuttles or long distance freighters. The shuttles can be used
to bring up the most needed materials only. When you attack a new 
region, take over the alien bases first and teleport everything they produce
back to your big 4 in Sol.  You'll need to have military ships in the area if 
you want to defend them. If they are attacked, make them produce 
more drones locally. You can make the teleports operate in a loop so that
everywhere has relatively lower stocks, but anywhere can produce drones 
on command.
---


The Solve 
---------
This solve is not in FULL detail because it would take much too long to write
step by step everything you are to do. Well here it is!

Ok, the first thing to do at the beginning is to train 200 producers, 250
researchers, and 41 marines. Once you have them trained start building rigs
and at the same time research all the stuff that you have. Once you have 8 
rigs make them mine. After you researched everything build a shuttle and 
equip it with a factory section. Send it into space and set up the first
section. Land and get another section and repeat this until the factory is 
complete. Now your scientists should have come up with the IOS and its
attachments. Build the IOS and equip it with more factory sections and send
it to build more factories. Do not set up more than 5 factories because the
Methanoids will declare war on you. The best planets to build factories at
are Earth, Moon, Venus, Leda, and Callisto. After you have these factories
launch an IOS equiped with 3 grapples to the asteroids. Go inside the ship
and activate the grapple. Then pass a few days until the computer scans and
finds an asteroid. Pass days some more until a suitable asteroid made of the
mineral you need to make the R Frame appears and is not more than 250T in 
mass. Retrieve the asteroid and go to any factory. Click on the grapple that
has the asteroid and the mineral will be extracted from it. Now you can build
the R Frames. Equip one R Frame onto a shuttle and land with it on a planet.
You must have a factory over that planet though. Click on the Tool Pod which
contains the Frame and the computer will correctly position it. Launch and
get another frame and do the same thing. Now you have a Resource station.
Make these resource stations on every planet that you have an orbital factory
over (remember, no more than five factories). On each of your 5 factories,
including Earth, make sure you have 8 rigs that are mining. Also, on each 
factory you should have a shuttle with an ACC bringing up all the needed
minerals that the rigs are producing to the factory. Ok, before you start the
war with the Methanoids 4 of your factories should have all of these minerals
each: 24000T of Iron, 24000T of Titanium, 24000T of Aluminum, 3000T of 
Carbon, 11000T of Copper, 6000T of Paladium, and 6000T of platinum. This will
take you a long time to do but it's the only way. Also you should have an AOC
on each of these 4 factories. Have alot of fuel on Earth and Leda and also
a IOS with a tool pod ready in Space bay on both of these factories before 
starting the war. Now send an IOS and build the 6th factory and you will 
receive a message from the Methanoids. Pass a day and your scientists will
invent the Drone Computer and the Drones. Research these two and build two
drone computers one on Earth and one on Leda. At the same time make the 
AOC build drones on the other two. Once you have the drone computers built 
make the two other factories build drones. Set the AOC on automatic drone 
building so you won't have to run around from factory to factory to set
production. While your factories are building drones install the two drone 
computers onto the IOSs that you have on Earth and Leda. Fuel the ships and
put Admirals in as their pilots. Launch both of them. Go inside the one that
is around Leda and click on the Battle Computer and add all the drones that
Leda has built to the fleet. Keep adding drones one by one until you reach 
about 20. Then go to the IOS that is around Earth and add the drones that are
there to the fleet. Then fly the IOS to the closest factory that is producing
drones which is the Moon and add those drones to the fleet. Next fly the IOS
to Callisto and take those drones and then fly to Leda and Remove all the 
drones you collected to the pool and fly back to Earth. Then with the other
IOS that is around Leda add all those drones to the fleet. You should now
have an IOS around Leda with around 80 to 90 drones. Always keep this IOS
around Leda because that is the place the Methanoids will attack first. If
they attack Callisto just fly the IOS from Leda to Callisto. When the 
Methanoids attack one of your factories you have 4 days to get an IOS there
and defeat them. Ok, now build 20 more drones on all 4 factories and collect
them with the IOS that is in Earth orbit and take them to Leda. Put them in 
pool and fly back to Earth. Now with the other IOS add them to the fleet and
you should have about 160 to 170 drones. Keep doing this and if you succeed
in getting 200 drones before they attack you save the game and attack 
Jupiter. If you loose then load the game. If you win the IOS will 
automatically dock at the factory. Now quickly click on the PANIC icon (Self-
Destruct Mechanism) and then back to the IOS and take off fast. The factory
will be destroyed. Pass a day or two and your scientists will copy the 
Methanoid's Self-Destruct Mechanism. Research it and build it on all of your
factories. Now keep building drones and keep transfering them to Leda. Also
fly the IOS that is around Jupiter to Leda. Once you have another 200 drones
attack Uranus. Save first though. When you win click on the PANIC icon and 
switch the two levers at the right side of the screen. That should deactivate
the Self-Destruct Mech. Now go to Stores on Uranus and then click on Switch
Storerooms and you will see the M.T.X. Pass a day or two and your scientists
will copy the M.T.X. Build this on all factories. Now all the drones you
build on the 4 factories make the M.T.X automatically transfer them to 
Uranus. Build more drones and attack the Methanoids at Titania, then at 
Neptune, then at Triton and at Pluto. After you conquer Pluto your scientists
will find plans for the S.C.G in the Methanoids records and also the Star
drones. Don't build it YET and don't worry about it YET. Now build an IOS
on Neptune and install the D.F.C.C into it and launch it into orbit. Also 
build an IOS on Callisto and install the D.F.C.C into it and launch it into
orbit. While you are doing this make sure those 4 factories are building 
drones and sending them to Uranus. Also fly the IOS with which you conquered 
Pluto to Uranus. Forget about Pluto, if the Methanoids attack it just nuke
it. The Methanoids will keep attacking you even though they have no more 
factories in that solar system. Now with the IOS that is around Uranus 
collect all the drones that are there into the remaining fleet. Keep building
them until you have 200. Now wherever they attack you can defend it. If they
attack you at Titania just fly your IOS from Uranus to Titania, save it first
and kick their butt. It will take 4 days to fly there but that is enough. 
After you win return the IOS to Uranus. If they attack you at Leda just 
remove the drones from the IOS that is around Uranus and transport them by
the M.T.X to Callisto. At Callisto you should have an IOS so just add them
to the fleet and fly to Leda and kick their butt again. You should have
4 IOSs with the D.F.C.C. One around Earth, one around Callisto, one around
Uranus and one around Neptune. All of your factories will be protected in
this way except Venus which they will not attack in a LONG time. Keep 
building drones and transporting them to Uranus. You must also build as many
orbital factories as you can (16 is the limit for every solar system). Make
sure that you have IOSs with the D.F.C.C to protect them all. Try to pick
planets that have good resources (the most needed resources later in the game
are paladium and silver). Oh! equip an IOS with a grapple on Earth and launch
it into orbit. Activate the grapple and you will find the first part of the
UNKNOWN item. Seven more parts to go! Stock up on resources and make 3 
factories build star drones but keep building the IOS drones too. This will
take you a while to do. Build an S.C.G and equip it with the D.F.C.C. Oh, I 
hope you researched the S.C.G and the special fuel since only Uranus can 
produce it. Collect the drones with the S.C.G and make sure you have full 
fuel. Now most of the rest you will have to do yourself cause it is a pain
for me to explain it to you. Every time you conquer a solar system the race
that has been sending messages to you will tell you the location of the next
part to the Unknown Item. Also, every time you conquer a solar system your
scientists will research a new item (well almost every time). You only need
to conquer seven other solar systems to win the game even though there are     
eight. Now what you must do is send the S.C.G with the star drones to a 
system with the least amount of planets (Proxima will do). Fly to Pacific
and conquer it. Then transport some star drones to Pacific and add them to
the fleet to make a full 200. Now fly to Barent and conquer that too. 
Transport a grapple and a tool pod to Barent and equip it on to the S.C.G.
Pass a day or two and the aliens will tell you the location of the next part.
Fly to that planet and take the item with the grapple and fly back to Barent.
Remove the item for research and equip the D.F.C.C onto the ship and refuel.
After a few days your scientists should invent a formula that will allow you 
to fly faster than the speed of light. Research the formula. Also make sure
you have an IOS with drones to protect the two planets in that system. Now
since you can fly to any system and back very fast you should make all of
your Admirals into Warlords so the strenght of the IOS drones will be 
increased. An Admiral changes into a Warlord just by flying to another system
faster than the speed of light. So fly all of your Admirals to Proxima and 
back until all of them are Warlords. The rest is very simple, build up 
drones, attack another system, conquer it, retreive the part of the Unknown
item, build up more drones and repeat this process until you have conquered
7 systems and have all parts to the Unknown item. Once you have all the parts
the aliens will send you a message with the instructions on how to use it.
Build the item and put it on a tool pod onto an S.C.G. Launch the S.C.G into
orbit and activate the item in the tool pod. You will then see the END 
sequence and you have finished Deuteros. If you have any problems leave me 
a message on either my board or these elite bbss: Necropolis, Ghetto, Link
To Perfection, Bigfoots or Black Plague...