THE NEXT> MILLENNIU}
Ac

ISION

DEUTEROS
THE NEXT MILLENNIUM
Designed

and programmed

Craghies

by jar Rerknian

Music
ST

lan Bird

by Mait Bates

music

Gane

by

by Martin Vvialker

testing bey Dawe

Cunning,

Matt

Rates,

Richard Gallagher

Produced in association with Marjacg Micros
©

For

lan Bird

oa]

information

about our product,

write to:

ACTIVISIOMS!

ELIRCSPI

EP 40

S271

Bouloene-Billanceurt

FRAME

Forties best sence, de sere to mote the subject of your ingeiry on the outside of the envelope.

PLEASE CX) NOT MAKE ILLEGAL COPIES OF THIS SOFTWARE

The sothvant youare wing was procuiced thengsh ihe cons of many people: designers, artists. preararncness, cistrikarters, re
hile and other dedi alerd wockers.
The costs of clovclagies this and other satbocam: programs
are rocovcted through samware sales. The uinautherized! dupli anon
Gt petal Cotpuder sollwane ies (he co bo all legamate users.
This eatwire is penter led by ekeral copyamht live, Cong olivate for ty tease other thant make a beckup is a veolatic
of law. Individuals whe make enaulhorised coapics of attesie raybe ake ote. ane] crismral penaliics.
ACTIVIIOM, as amenmnber od the Sofware Publishers Ase talion (PA), suppocts ine tidusine’s clfort bo fight the legal cosine
of persanal computer salbwanc
Rep

cope

HE cede ALITA les:
SPA Eure.
2. Place dela Detense § Vtodkd Trane Center

CMTE

[hl diy

"2054 Pans La Catteni Freie

THE INTERIM
GETTING STARTED
MASTER CONTROL

PANEL

Advance Time

Disk Access
News Bulletins
Earth City

Master Control
Deposit Analysis
Stocktaker
DEPARTMENTAL CONTROL
Production
Stores
Resource

Training
Research
Service Bays
Shuttle

PANEL

SHIP CONTROL
EQUIPMENT & DATA REFERENCE
ACC
AQ
ICS Chassis
lS Drive
OF Frame
Pods

Resource Mining Rig
R Frarne

Shuttle Chassis
Shuttle Orive

HOW TO BUILD AN ORBITAL FACTORY

ADDENDUM A: Extracts from “Principles” Vol. XXI
ADDENDUM

B: Glossary

THE INTERIM
In 2200 AD a gigantic asteroid smashed into the Pacific Ocean with devastating results.All human life ceased to exist in the cataclysm which followed, except for a small colony of researchers living on the Moon, Their destiny was ta recolonise the Earth ancl transform her devastated
lands and seas into the gentle blue planet they had once known.
Massive resources were required; materials not available from the meagre deposits on the
Moon. The commander of Moon Base drew up his plans and colonised planets and moons
throughout the Solar system. The technology of the day had filed the entire human genome and
allowed the scientists of Moon Base to create specific hurnan mutations which could live and
multiply on other planets.
Eventually, with the Mother planet now restored and habitable, the commander ordered a mass

exodus to Earth. Every man, woman and child would be needed to rebuild the civilisation destroyed by the impact. All thoughts tumed to this objective. Moon Base, so crucial to their survival, was abandoned, The outer colonies, with varying races of mutations, were forgotten.
For the first two centuries very lithe occured on the outer colonies. The separate races expanded and traded, each developing their unique cultures. Then a miner argument flared up
between the two most advanced and powertul races, the Hydraids and the Methanoids, The

Hydioids were a rather unpleasant litetorm who seemed ta have retained most af man’s more
hostile traits. Gn the other hand the Methanoids were a calm, intelligent and resourceful cul-

ture, whose most consuming passion was for music. As long as the Hydroids kept to their planet
the Methanoids were happy.

For some years the Hydroids had been surveying a small moon in Satum’s orbit and were mow
ready to colonise, The Methanoids were having mane of il, worried al the speed at which the
Hydioids were expanding. The situation was compounded by an incident following a concert

niven by the spectacularly popular Ulta ben-Cthug, a Methanoid composer, A Hydroid envoy
had been invited to the concert, but hac left after a few minutes, complaining that ben-Cihug’s

opening piece hac caused them physical distress. The Melhanoids were furious, and war iollowed swiilly, a bitter and prolonged war which was to last for over a century.
The Methaneids® intellect was to give them the ultimate advantage. Their tactics and weaponry

improved with every battle while the Hycdroids were losing more and more of their colonies,

and wilh them the resources to build new battle fleets.Finally the Hydroids were pinned down
ta their last stranahold, the yellowed disk of Jupiter, and the Methanoids moved in for the kill,
Their awesome fleet approached the beleaguered colony, the vast ships flanked by hundreds af
battle drones. The Methanoid battle anthem boomed across the raclio waves as the last battle
bepan.

Meanwhile, on Earth, the passing centuries had seen the rise of a new human civilisation. Life
on New Earth was desperately severe and humans hacl been saltened by generations of reliance
on lechnology and science. Thoughts of spaceflight were long since forgotten and contact wath
the outer colonies was unheard of. No one knew of the frantic conflict between the Hydroids
and Methanoids; ne one would have been interested anyway. Their lives were a constant

strugele with one objective: recolonisation of this harsh new world. Even Moon Base failed to
stir any emotions; there were no records of such a place, no proof that it ever existed, and the
one time home of the hurnan race became a legend.

All this was to change with the works of a certain Or, Darrill Trout. Born in the 29th Century he

became the heacl of research at the New World university, revolutionising the world's thinking
with works on spaceflight, politics and history.
Or. Trout believed that Moon Base existed, He had evidence of this and other colonies beyand
the asteroid belt. Alter many years of hard work he published “Principles”, a twenty six volume

thesis on spacecraft design and construction. The latter tvo volumes dealt with a plan to build a
second “Moon Base” on Earth for the control of an orbital stepping stone to the Moon and
beyond,
The effect of “Principles* was spectacular, Work on the new Earth City began forthwith, Depite
the feelings of some of the populace that space travel was both unnatural and undesirable, the

prayect provided a much needed goal now that the prime objective had been achieved. By the

‘year 31700 AD the City was complete. Recruils were ready for training and eagerly awaited the
arrival newly appointed commander...
Operation “Deuteros” was underway.

GETTING STARTED
AMIGA: Remove all peripheral devices such as printers from your computer before loading.
Switch your monitor then your computer on. At the workbench prompt insert the Deuteros boat
disk in drive DFO (ATOO0 owners should first boot with the Kickstart disk).

ATARI 5T: Remove all peripheral devices such as printers from your computer before loading.
Place the Deuteros boot disk in drive 1 and switch your moniter then your computer on.
The game will load automatically, displaying the title screen. Press the right mouse button to
see the opening sequence. If you wish to skip directly to the game press the left mouse button.
lf you have a second disk drive you may use it to save or load the game without changing

discs. You should have a blank disk reacly before you start, but there is no need to format the
disk,

HOW TO USE THIS MANUAL
you are an experienced player, you may like to start playing ihe game by exploring the de-

parnments of Earth City for yoursell. All essential iniormation is available within the game, and
maximum satisfaction is to be pained by working out fer yourself how to use the equipment under your control,
Explanations of the contral icons and descriptions of each of the departments of Earth City are

aiven an the following pages. There is also an alphabetically arranged reference section, describing most ai the various pieces of equipment found in Deuteros, and providing instructions
on how they are used (see ihe index on page 2). As a new item is researched you are advised to
access the description in the STORES on Earth City (see page 19).
A complete step-by-step puide to building your first Qrbital Factory is also proviched, starting on

(pape 37).

CONTROLS
Deuteras is controlled using the mouse to point the cursor at the various CONTROL

ICONS,

then pressing the left mouse bulton to activate the icon. As the cursor moves over an icon its
use is identified in text in the lop leit corner of the screen. Occasionally the right mouse button

is used

exit a menu, The keyboard is used only when naming craft or saved games.

EARTH

CITY

THE MASTER COMPUTER
At the heart of Earth City lies a vast network of control and scanning systems,
signed to give a centralised command

These are de-

hase for all activities. The entire network is linked to one

main Master Computer.
The Master Computer has been designed to give Control access to orbital factories, surface stations, spacecraft and communications, by generating visual displays through the activation of

various Braphic icons . It alsa supplies information on stocks, planetary deposit analysis and
personne],

MASTER CONTROL

PANEL

The Master Control Panel is the main interface with the

Master Computer. It consists of a series of icons allhough
only the first igur will be on line initially, The active contral icon will animate to provide a reference to Control,

ADVANCE TIME
At the bottom of the display isa digital date and clack
readout which indicates the current time, Operations such
as production and mining may take several hours or days to complete,

so the option to Advance Time is given via this ican.
Activating the icon will advance time ata fixed rate. To stop the advance press the left mouse
button again until the curser reappears,
For fine control time may also be advanced by moving the cursor over the time display itseli
and pressing the leit button. The advance will stop as soon as the button is released.

DISK ACCESS
This gives access to saving and loading your position, A separate disk is required which must be
formatted using the format function on this display. Up to five positions may be saved on one
disk. Each may be given a name of up to ten characters.

The timer keene

track of how

long you

hawe baer operating

in days, hours and minutes, This

time is saved along wilh your game and is shown in the index box, If you chanpe save discs remember to update the index by clicking on the disk Directory icon,
To save or load a position simply click on the icon next to the required index label. If the request is valid you will be asked te confirm the operation, Any incorrect response will cancel the
request.
IF YOU

HAVE A SYSTEM WITH

2 FLOPPY DISK DRIVES, the system will always use the sec-

and drive for saved positions (DF1-: for Amiga, drive B for ST). This reduces the need to swap
discs (ST owners note thal this option is only available if

Ce

you have IMb oor more of memory available,

When the ACC becomes available you may set
thresholds tor shuttles and 1S from here, This
tonnage of fuel for each ship at which the ACC
tinwe to function, Below this level the ship will

the refuel
gives the
will conbe held in

dock until fuel is available, These settings are saved with
WOUr Position.

Amiga owners have the can togele the sound filter for improved sound quality by clicking the "LED" (Power) icon,
Adjusl to your taste, Connection to an external stereo hifi system or headphones is recommended!
To exif the disk access display press the right mouse
hutten,

NEWS

BULLETINS
A simple display of the most recent important events.

The latest reparts are highlighted, Each message is
preceded bry ie date upon whith ine even OCCUned.

During early stapes of play the bulletin board may
seem supreriluous, but its importance will grow as you
expand your systems. It can alsa serve as a reminder

when a previously saved position is loaded fram disk,
Emergency reports will cause the News Bulletin ican
to flash accompanied by a warming buzz: time ad-

vance will be halted automatically. You are strangly
advised to access the news bulletins in this instance!
Below the reports window is a single icon which can
be used to repeat he most recent Special Bulletin (if
any}.

EARTH CITY
Activating this icon takes you directly to Earth

City, displaying all relevant icons for
accessing its departments in the
DEPARTMENTAL

CONTROL

PANEL

isee below). This allows you to
return to the surface of Eanth from
anywhere at any time,

MASTER

CONTROL

Thisucan will ageear when your first orbital factory is Constructed above the Earth. I orevides a
display of all factories and their current status, Factories are named according to their host
planet or moon. Clicking on any factory displayed will give you access to the departments al

that location, via the DEPARTMENTAL CONTROL PANEL. Surface stations may be accessed
only via the respective orbital fac-

tary. Note that Earth is a special
case. Earth Cily is not controlled by
its orbithing factory, 00 Tiely he ac-

cessed only via the Earth City icon.
This screen will also provide a display of all your ICS and their current talus. Access to the cockpit of

each craft may be gained by clicking on the ship's icon,
As this display pives access to so

many of your facilities it is used extensively. The right mouse button has
been connected to the Master Control ican,
and under mast circumstances pressing this button will take you to this display, just as if you had
activated lhe Master Control icon.

DEPOSIT ANALYSIS
This icon will become available at the anorooriate
time and is for information only. When activated il
gives a graphic display of satellite and system charts,

identical ta the navigation systems for IOS spacecraft, Below the chart is a deposit analysis of the

most abundant minerals available for mining, along
with an indicator of any resident orbital factory.
To view the analysis on any planet or moon simply
move the cursor over the required loaction and press
the left mouse button. While in a satellite chart click-

ing an the planet zooms out to the system chart,
showing all planets in the system. Selecting a planet
from the system chart zooms into the appropriate salellite chart showing all moons of that planet. The
analysis for the last location selected wall be dis-

played.

|

STOCKTAKER
This is the main data base provicied yy Use HAaster Come
puter, It supplies information on stocks of raw materials

and equipment at all the orbital factories in the system. A
further function gives a list of all tearns of personnel along
with their current location and status.

The SWITCH STOREROOM icon toggles the display between material stocks and equipment stocks,

MATERIAL STOCKS displays a list of all mineable minerals along with the locations where active factories are currently in orbit, The figures before each location indicate
the tonnage in the GF stores of the material highlighted in
red, Simply move the cursor over the material names and
press the left button to select a material. The figures will be updated to

show the stacks,
EQUIPMENT STOCKS displays a selection panel on the right of the screen along with the
loactians where active factories are currently in orbit. To make a selection move the curser over

the panel and click the button for the required item.
TEAM ROSTER is available only from the Material Stocks display. Click on the ROSTER ON/

OFF icon to display the tearm list, The roster is colour coded: White team names are Mariners,
blue relers lo production teams while research engineers are grey. Fach line sha the rank and

name of the team leader along with the number of staff remaining in the team, The small sym-

bols indicate their condition: a small head-and-shoulders indicates that this is the active crew
ona ship. The ‘sleeping man’ shows that the team is on a cryogenic pod aboard a ship. Planet

and moon names indicate that the team is probably in the OF crya stores at thal location, Ship
names are also colour coded: green for a shuttle and red for an 10S, Use the SCROLL UP (5121)
and SCROLL DOWN

($122)

DEPARTMENTAL

icons to view other teams if you have more than twelve active.

CONTROL PANEL

Below the Master Control Panel is an array of ioans which give access to the various departments of Earth City and Orbital Factories. The Master Computer will generate the appropriate

icons for each location. If you are notin any particular location no icons will be displayed, [fin
doubt as to your current location it will be identified in the bottorn rightof the screen,

PRODUCTION
Selecting this icon will give a display of the production department for this location. It comprises of an item selection panel to

the far right, a book of blueprints, a production progress indicator
and a team status box.
Moving the cursor over the selection panel reveals the blueprint

and name of each item. Clicking on this panel will cause thal itern
to be produced, As play commences only the Derrick, or Resource Mining Rig, is available for production, Other items must
first be researched before they appear on the selection panel.

To produce anything you must first have a team of artisans for production contrel, These may
be supplied direct from the Training Department on Earth or from the ship Service Bays in or-

bital factories. Most items have a Tech Level. The controlling team leader must have the corresponding minimum rank for each Tech Level. Team leaders will be promoted as they gain experience by producing items. The higher the rank of artisans the faster they will produce selected
items. Speed is also affected by the number of staff in the team. Each artisan tearm leader may
supervise up to 200 staif. Finally, production teams may be moved to the ship Service Bays for
transportation to another location. Simply click on the icon to the left of the team status box, If
there is space available the team will be tranferred to the Service Bay and production will be

suspended.

All production requires raw materials. When a request is made for an item to be produced the
stores are Checked for any shortages. If deficiencies exist they are shown on the display. Otherwise the stocks will be removed from the stores and production will begin. When complete the
tern will be transferred directly into the Equipment Stores ready for use, Note that some items,
such as the ACK, are buill in situ and not passed to stores.

STORES
Earth City, orbital factories and surface stations all have storage
capabilities for raw materials and equipment. The Stores display
may be toggled between the twa types of storeroom using the

icon at the bettom of the display.

MATERIAL STORES gives a list of all possible raw materials. To the left of each is the amount
currently in stock up to a maximum of 50000. The blue anows indicate deposits available on

the lacal moon or planet. The item selector panel allows you to find out how many of a particular item may be produced from the current slacks. When any item is selected the stock figures
are colour coded to show which materials are required; green indicates sufficient for at least
ane of that item, while red indicates a shortage. Grey figures are not required for this item.

EQUIPMENT STORES gives a list of researched iterns along with the current stocks. Stores may
hold a maximum of 15 of each item. Moving the cursor over the name of any item will access
the design library, providing a short description and function of the selected item. Press the left
buttan to close the description.

NE, Amiga users with an unexpanded machine will note that this function will cause the itern
to be loaded from the DATA disk, Library access will allow production to display the seperate
stages of manufacture of that item, while production of any other item will display a general

purpose graphic.

RESOURCE
Resource centres are available on Earth City ane surface sta-

tions. They control any mining rigs (clerricks) and the surveying
of fresh mineral seams, The rigs are responsible for the extraction of minerals.

The display shows a list of the deposits which may be mined at the current location. To the left
are fipures giving an estimate of the size of the current seam - NOT the current slack of that

minéral. Once the seam has been exhausted the figure will change to show that a SURVEY is
underway fora new seam. During this period no mining of thal material will be achieved. Sur-

veys will take varying times to complete depending on the rarity of the mineral.
When derricks have been manufactured they may be assigned to Resource from Stores by clickington the ADO MINING

REG icon at the bottom right of the display. Control systerns allow for

a maximum of & derricks for each resource station. The more rigs assigned the faster minerals
will be recovered.

TRAINING
Training is available only in Earth City and is responsible for
supplying skilled personnel for the three professions: Research, Production and Mariners.
Earth City has a vast population. However, only a small percentage is available and suitable for recruitment. Recruits

form a pool of available people which may not be replenished. The training department display gives the current size
of the recruit pool to the leit. There are three training areas

lo which recruits may be assigned, each door showing the
area of training available, To train a tearm point the cursor to
the RECRUIT icon inside each door and press the button,

keeping it held down for a fast transfer. A maximum of 100 personnel may be trained in each

area at any one time, Training will commence once the ADVAMCE TIME function is activated.
When training is complete the new tearn will be Iransferred to the respective department with
the most promising student as team leader, The training area doors will be opened for further recruits. If a team is already present in the department then all newly trained recruits will be
added to the staff of the existing team. Teams may be brought to full strength in this way. Train-

ing for Production and Research will not allow more recruits than necessary for the existing
teams. When Mariners are trained they will first be split to maximise the tearns in the Shuttle

Bay. Any remaining recruits will form a new team. The shuttle bay cryogenics may hold up to

four teams.
When first released from training the leader has the lowest rating for his profession, Higher

ranks may only be achieved through experience in the field.
Maximum staff
Research
Production
Mariners

250 + leader
2004 leader
40 + leader

l

Ratings
Technician
Apprentice
Pilot

Decor
Engineer
Captain

Professor
Expert
Admiral

While teams are active natural losses of staff will occur, due to ageing, disease or accidents,
These losses will not occur while the team is stored inside a ship's cryo pod!

RESEARCH
As with Training, Research facilities are only available in Earth City. Research requires a trained
team and is responsible for the design and blueprints for the Production department. Nothing
can be produced until it ts first researched in this department.
At the bottom of the display is a tearn status box which gives information on the resichent team.

The speed at which items are designed is relative to the number of staif assigned to the team.
Nate also that each item has its own Tech Level. which demands a minimum rating from the tear leader.
To select an item for research move the cursor over the se-

lection panel to the right of the display. When the item
name appears press the left button, Each drawer in the selection panel has a coloured light, indicating the progress
of research on that item, Red indicates that the iter is
completely unresearched. Yellow indicates thal some

progress has been mace. Green shows that the item is fully
designed and passed to the Production department. Selection of a preen item will give a rundown of the requirements for manufacture, ie. Tech level, raw materials and type of production facilities. Selection of red or yellow items will start the reseach work.
Research is also responsible for investigating objects you may find, and designing tools for

problem solving. The team leader will inform you of any developments via the News Bulletin.
Work on any new items must be requested by Contral, so keep an eye on what the Research
team is doing!

SERVICE BAYS
These are responsible for the servicing of all your spacecraft,
Refuelling, loading and unloading, engine fitting, crewing and

general refits are all carried out here. Each Service Bay is directly linked to the Stores via a series of hydraulic elevators.
Chassis and equipment may be moved to and fram the Stores
as required. Each Service Bays also has the capacity to house

up to four teams of Mariners for transfer to and from spacecraft.
Note that there are two types of Service Bay. One is specifically
designed for Shuttles (bays) while the other is for larger spacecraft (docks). The space dock is

only available at orbital factories; larger ships cannot be landed on Earth or surface stations.
An empty Senvice Bay may be used to build new vessels. Simply click on the NEW SHIP icon at
the top of the display and a new chassis will be lifted! frorn the Stores. Note that new ships require an engine and fuel before they are operational. While a ship is docked in any bay a computer generated image of the ship appears over the top of the gantry. Clicking on the sections of
the image will move the pantry over the selected part of the ship, thus allowing access to each
section.
CREW SECTION displays the nose of the ship, the name and rank of the crew, if any, and the
four team rooms where Mlariners or Artisans may reside. Mariners are colour coded red, Arti-

sans blue. To assign a crew move the cursor over one of the resident teams and press the leit
button. Remove crews by clicking on a vacant team room. Note that clicking on a resident beam
of Artisans will transfer therm to the Production department.

POD MOUNTS allows the fitting and removal of the three different types of pocls (see page 33.
Three different icons at the bottom left of the display decide which type of pod is fitted to the
ship. If the pod is already fitted it will be removed! anc replaced in Stores, To load or empty the

pod move the cursor aver the graphic of the pod on the ship's chassis until INSPECT POD appears in the text description area and press the feit Gotten. A window will appear for the apn.
oriate pod. Materials, equipment and tears may now be transferred to and fram the pod, Press

the right button to close the window.
ENGINE MOUNTING allows a newly commisioned craft to be fitted with an engine by clicking
on the INSTALL icon. Damaged enpines may also be replaced in the same way. Of course, the
old engine is scrapped and not replaced in the Stores. The refuel bar beneath the gantry shows
how much fuel is in the ship's tanks. The white figure shows how much is in stock. Click on the
+ or - to adjust the fuel level. While in the service bay access to the ship’s cockpit is gained by
clicking on any part of the chassis,
DISMANTLE will initiate the dismantling of the entire ship, placing all components into storage,
However, the procedure will be halted if there is no yacant team room for the crew. Items held

in grapples must be removed manually before selecting this function,

SHUTTLE
Only one shutthe may
This icon gives access
showing all necessary
craft and any cargo it

be active on each planet or moon.
to the cockpit af the shuttle,
information on the status of the
is carrying. The ETA reading

shows the time at which its current manoeuvre is ex-

pecied to be completed,

SHIP CONTROL
Most functions of ship contral are performed from the cockpit, Not all ships have the same contrals. The shuttle is restricted to its mother planet and so no course setting is required, Each
function is explained below (refer to the diagram for the location of the icons}.
SERVICE SHIP

Ifthe ship is docked this will take you fram the cockpit inte the service bay.
DOCK, LAND and LAUNCH
These are the manual override buttons for ship manoeuvres.

POD CONTROLS
This panel shows all pocts fitted to the ship. Select the apprapriale pod mount to access the contents or controls for that pod. While the ship is docked selecting a pod will take you to the ser-

vice bay, with the pantry positioned over that pod mount.

SWITCH

VIEW

The cockpit display has two modes, and by selecting the Switch View icon it is possible to
topale between a status display and a visual display of the exterior view (expanded computers
nly).
ENGAGE/DISENGAGE DRIVE
Cin interplanetary flights the main drive must be engaged to travel to the preset destination, M
nor manoeuvres such as docking will engage the drive automatically.
SET COURSE
By selecting this icon it is possible te set
the ship’s destination. A series of charts
will be displayed showing the local

planets and moans. Anywhere in the
system may be targetted. The display also

gives an ETA (estimated time of arrival) for @

the selected destination. There aretwo
types of chart: the satellite chart and the
system chart. While in the satellite chart
clicking on any moon will select it as the

destination, and the ETA will be calculated ane displayed. Clicking on the subject planet will set the destination as that
planet, but alse switch display to the sys-

a
a

tem chart. In the system chart all the planets in the system are shown and may be selected as
destinations. Clicking an a planet will also take you to the satellite chart for that locale. Pressing
the right mouse button will close the display and log the last selected planet or moon as the
ship's destination.
lf you wish to change course while the ship is already in flight, disengage the drive first! Changing course may force the ship to come to a halt before turning to its new heading, extending the
time it will take to reach the new destination, It may even be quicker to let the ship reach its
present target before changing destinations.

EQUIPMENT AND

DATA REFERENCE

This guide should be used as new items are mace available to provide more information on the
operation of items.

ACC
The ACC is designed to carry raw materials in 4 pre-programmed cycle, cantrolling mundane
tasks such as docking, launching and loading of stores. You'll wonder how you ever managed
without it! Both shuttles and 1S may be fitted with the ACC.
The computer is fitted fron the crew section in any ship service bay, or automatically when a

new chassis is removed fram the stores and an ACC is available. Access to the computer is
aained by clicking on the pulsing red icon at the top left of lhe cockpit display,

The computer provides a list of all available materials with colurons of LEDs on both sides of
the list. To program the ACC simply toggle the required LED on or off. For example, to take Iron
FROM the surface TO the orbital factory stores toggle the green LED to the left of “Iron” so that
itis lit. The column to the right of “Iron” should be off. Now engage the ACC by activating the
ENGAGE icon. With this setting the shuttle will fly from surface to the orbital factory and back,
carrying Iron on the upward trip each time ane depositing il in the orbital stores, The two pointers.on the display show which material will be taken next. If multiple settings are made the
pointer will cycle through the selected materials, taking one pod full at a time.
Note that the computer will not take any action while the ship is in orbil. Dock or land the craft

manually to begin the cycle. The compuler may be disengaged at any time, or set to complete

its current cycle, which will be when the ship has docked or landed and unloaded! its current

cargo. lino supply pod is fitted a warning will be given, but the computer will still follow the

flight plan, Obviously no supplies will be transferred.
The ACC alsa controls all refuelling of the ship when it docks. If sufficient fuel is not available
the ACC will hold the ship in dock until the refuel threshold is reached. This refuel threshold
may be set manually from the DISK ACCESS display. The settings will be stored) with any saved
games.
Once you are accustomed to the use of the ACC you might like a few tips on using it to its full.
The computer may be used to balance the material stocks of two different stores. Simply turn an
the LEDs on each side of a material and the ACC will assess the levels of stock at each end of its

flight plan, A complete balance may take a little time te achieve.
Although a crew is not required aboard a ship which is under ACC control, they will gain flight
experience during their travels. The ACC may be used in conjunction with an AMA (Asteroid
Mining Attachment}. Treat the asteroids as you would any orbital stores and the AMA will mine
the requested materials automatically,

AOC
Construction of any item, requires the presence of highly trained production stall, These Astisans

take time to learn their skills, making them rare and greatly valued. However, the drawback of
using humans is that they need a separate request for each item they make. The AOC replaces
artisans, freeing them for use in new locations. All production can now be made automatic.

a

|

fh

To program the AOC select items to be made as usual. Each light on the itern selection panel

has three states indicated by different colours, Red means that the selection is OFF, and no
items will be produced. Yellow means that the AOC will attempt to make one of these items,
while green programs the AGC to produce this item until the storage area is full (the AOC will

switch ta recl automatically at this point.
The AGC will cycle through the list, producing the items requested. If there are insufficient raw
materials in stock, the item will be skipped and the next selected. Only one AGC may be built
in any factory. As soon as the AOC

is installed the resident artisans will be transferred to the

ship service bays.

IOS CHASSIS AND DRIVE
The Interplanetary Operations Spacecratt is the most versatile vessel ever designed and com-

pounds the theories of Dr. Trout. It permits interplanetary travel on a scale never seen. Similar

in basic design to the shuttle, the 10S allows human control by a crew and the mounting of
three pods. Each pod may be of any type and controlled separately, This gives a maximum payload of 750 L.

In addition, the 1OS has in-built navigation computers allowing flight paths anywhere within the
solar system. Its massive engine, the | Drive, is capable of long burst high thrust performance.

This means that the [OS may escape any gravilational field at extreme speeds. Maximum velocity is yet lo be ascertained, but is estimated to be 0.3c tone third light speed).
Due to the linear design and rear directed thrust the [OS is incapable of landing an the surface

of large planets or moons, Orbital factories provide the only means of service. It is feasible,
however, that they could rendezvous with large asteroids, although this has not been tested.

ORBITAL FACTORY SECTION (OF FRAME)
CREW REQUIRED:
ACTIVATION

Pilat

CONDITIONS:

- Host ship must be in orbit.
- Operational factory must not be present already.
Don't be fooled by its simple name; the OF Frame is a very sophisticated piece of equipment.
Orbital Factories are too large to be carried into orbit fram the planet surface. They rust be
transported in kit form and constructed section by section. Eight OF Frames are required to construct one Orbital Factory.

Each Frame is designed! to fit inside a Tool Pod and may be activated {rom the carrying shuttle
cockpit, A small computer controls expansion ancl location of the section to any already in or-

bil. This is. an automatic process bul skilled humans are required to oversee the deployment.
The computer has an automatic fail safe to prevent further release of sections where an Orbital
Factory is already in operation. Furthermore, the Master Computer can control only sixteen factories al ane time.

The Orbital Factory becomes operational as soon as the last section is locked into position.
Docking bays and store rooms may be used immediately, though production facilities will re-

quire artisans and raw materials, both of which may be supplied via the shuttle. Power for the

factory is obtained from solar panels cladding the exterior surfaces, giving maximum exposure

to sunlight at all times.
li should be noticed that the low gravity environment and larger size of the production facilities
allow the Orbital Factory to produce iterns not possible on Earth,

PODS
There are three types of pod which may be mounted! upon spacecraft. The type of pod fitted de-

lermines the function for which the craft will be used.
SUPPLY POD
Supply pods are used for general haulage of raw materials between surface stations and Orbital Factories. Each pod has a single cavity and 4a may only hold one type of material at a
time. A single pod may hold up to 250 tonnes,
TOOL AND

EQUIPMENT POD

The to] pod is simply a mounting for equipment and provides contral circuits fram the
cockpil of the craft to any tool fitted to the pod, Some items have no function but may be
carried from one place to another via a tool pod. Tools which may perform functians while
mounted

may be activated by accessing the pod from the cockpit. A logic box in the pod cde-

cides if the canditians are correct for the operation of the mounted tool. Ifinat, the pod locks
out and replies with a report on the contents of the pad,

CRYOGENIC HOLDING POD
Cryo pods are the easiest to use bul the most advanced in technology. They are designed

specilically for the transport of live humans, While the occupants are inside all life systems
aredrazen, giving complete protection from viruses and degeneration fram age.

RESOURCE

MINING

RIG (DERRICK)

Derricks are the hub of all operations. They provide raw materials for the manufacture of ships,
fuel and equipment. Although simple in design they can perform very complex functions.
Each derrick is controlled remotely by a carmputer in the resource centre. GQnce a sizeable min-

eral seam has been located by the survey function of ihe rig, the computer will direct the der-

rick to move inte the optimum location tor mineral extraction. Mining is then automatic until
the seam is exhausted and the rig is relocated, The resource computer may handle up to eight

derricks.
As the raw materials enter the derrick they are passed through a series of processes, refining
them into usable packages which are ferried to the local material shores, Some processes are extended to maximise efficiency. Iron, for exarnple, is mixed with carbon and other trace elements
lo produce a range of graded steels,

The versatility of derricks is evident. They are Capable of extracting solids, liquids or pases im
mast environments with the minimum of maintenance. Desiens date back hundreds of years to

the days of the legendary Moon Base, Although current designs are greatly improved, the ariginal principles are still used.

RESOURCE STATION SECTION (R FRAME)
CREW REQUIRED: Pilot
ACTIVATION CONDITIONS:

Host ship must be on the surface of an unoccupied planet or
moon.

To complement any Orbital factory, surface stations may he constructed on the olanet below.
The construction of these stations is based on the same principles as that of Orbital factories.
Surface stations require two R frames to be deployed, Each frame is designed to fit inside a taol
pod and may be activated irom the carrying shuttle cockpit. A small computer controls expansion and location of the section. This is an aulomatic process but skilled humans are required to

oversee the deployment, Qhce construction is complete the working shuttle is placed inside the
newly operational service bay.
Surface stations have no production facilities or cryogenic slorage areas for crews. They are purpose built resource recovery and storage units. Little maintenance is required allhough Derricks
must be supplied, via shuttle, before any mining may commence.
Sunace stations rely on the orbitting factory for power and control. In the absence of the factory, all processes will cease and the station will fall into disrepair.

SHUTTLE CHASSIS AND DRIVE UNIT
The Shuttle is the planetary workhorse, the only link benween surface and orbit. Master
allows for only one shuttle per installation.

Contral

Present day designs for spacecraft are based on the “Principles” outlined by Gr. Darrill Trout of
the New World University, circa 2900. He stressed the point that building specific crafi for specific purposes was “restrictive and ridiculous”.

We shall not go inte details of his 26 volume thesis on craft design. Suffice to say that ships are
built for maximum

flexibility. Using a basic chassis and a standard mounting platform, the func-

lion of the ship depends upon the tools and equipment fitted. [tis then simple to turn a caren
ship into a personnel carrier, into a construction vehicle, etc.
Basically, the shuttle consists of three sections. The nose houses the crew, if assigned, and all
command and control systems for the craft, Each shuttle has one pod mounting. Extensive cir-

cuilry from pod to nose section allows total control over the pod and its contents from within
the cockpit (see “Pods” on page 33).
The engine mounting to the rear of the shuttle allows for the fitting of a short burst, high thrust
drive unit. Prototype designs incorporated the engine with the chassis but this proved to be

costly. Ifthe engine failed or became damaged the entire shuttle would be scrapped. Current
designs allow for the replacement of drive units on olel chassis.
Shuttles provide the penect crew training vehicle.

HOW TO BUILD AN ORBITAL FACTORY
A STEP-BY-STEP GUIDE
setting up your departments
. Your first priority as Earth Ciry controller will be to enlist and tain personnel for each department, Go to the Training department and transier recruits lo each area, pointing to the right
hand arrow in each of the dears and holding the leit mouse bytton. You will be unable to

run any departments until the recruits are trained, so click on the Advance Time icon until
the doers re-open. The first batch of trained staff will be assigned automatically to their departments, but before you leave the Training department transf@r more recruits lo each area,

. The next step is to build the Resource Department up to its maximum output, and to research

the other projects which will be needed to construct a shuttle and the sections of the Orbital
Factory, Go to the Research department and select the Shuttle Chassis, This is achieved by
clicking on the button in the item selection panel on the right of the screen. The green button
for the resource mining rig shows that it has already been researched; the red buttons denote
BrOveck. aaraiting research. Eater the Prochuction deparinent and chick on the sreen bution to

select a Derrick.
3. Advance Time and you will see the derrick being built. When it is complete and the derrick

praphic disappears ,2o to the Resource department and add the rig, using the icon at the battam right of the screen.

4. Repeat this procedure until your Resource department has a complement of 4 rigs.

5. Go to the Research department and select the Shuttle Drive. Now enter the Stores and click
on the Shuttle Chassis (point [he curser al the text in the centre of the screen). The item will
be shown, along with a description of its use. Return to production and build a Shuttle Chas-

sis. Advance Time. Build another 2 rigs. Advance Time. ‘ou will notice that the Production

ieam will be promoted to Engineer. The tearn’s periormance and capabilities have improved
due to their experience in their field,
. Goto the Stores and select the Shuttle Drive to view a description. You will be teld that the

drive requires fuel: return lo Research ane select MeH fuel. Qnce this has been researched it
will be produced autamatically from your stacks of Methane and Hydrogen.

. Return to Production and build a Shuttle Drive, Advance Time. Build another twe rigs to
bring Resources up to the maximum of eight.

Building a Shuttle
8. You are almost ready to send your first shuttle inta orbit. Geo to the Shuttle bay and you will
see the trained marines available as crew. Above them is the New Shuttle icon which will

bring the newly cansiructed chassis into the bay. Click on this icon. The shuttle be lifted into
view, while above the bay the New Shuttle icon will disappear, replaced by the Dismantle

icon and a small representation of the three sections of the shuttle. Clicking on any part of
this will allow you access lo the Crew section, Pod mount, and Engine section, Assign a
crew by pointing to any available tear and clicking the mouse button, The team will be
transferred to the Crew section of the shuttle.

There are three types of pods which can be installed in the shutthe. These are:
(i) Supply pox

Gi) Tool and equipment mountine
(iii) Cryogenic holding pod

Research each of these pods and then access their descriptions from the Mining store lo view
mere information an the use of each type of pod.

You will alsa need to research ancl construct an Orbital Factory section. To transport an OF section inte orbit, build a Tool and Equipment mounting. Install this mounting in your shuttle, then
paint to the pod - lhe words Inspect Pod will appear at the top left of the screen. Click the leit
mouse button to view the Equipment stocks and select OF Frame from the list. Now click ihe

right mouse button to exit fromm this menu.
Now click on the Engine mounting icon at the top of the screen. You will move along the

shuttle bay te the stern of the shuttle. Select the Install Drive Unit icon.
The shuttle is fuelled by pointing to lhe + sign to the right af the fuel bar below the shuttle bay.
Hold the left mouse button to transfer fuel, Hydrogen Methanol fuel is produced automatically
at any factory where both resources are available.

Controlling The Shuttle
There is now a new cen available which will take you to the cockpit of the shuttle. From the
cockpit you may view a text display giving information on the location, fuel available, crew and

cargo of the shuttle. By clicking at the bottom left comer of the cockpit you will switch te the

actual view fram the shuttle cockpit. The controls for the shuttle are posilioned araund the
cockpit window.

(i) Service ship - this appears in the top lef comer and will allow you

access to the

shuttle bay when the shuttle is decked,
tit} Dock - this is in the centre of the screen under the window: use it to dock with an OF
when in orbit.

{iii} Land - this is to the right of the Docking icon and is used to land the shuttle from orbit
onto @ planet or moon base,
(iv) Launch - to the right of the Land icon. Launches a ship from a base into orbit.

(v) Pod mounts - these appear in the bottom right af the cockpil screen.
Select Launch: the text will change to read: Climbing fromm Earth, Now Advance Time until the
shuttle reaches Earth's orbit. Click on the pod! mount to activate the OF frame. Note that a further seven frames are required to complete the factory.
When construction of the Orbital Factory is complete the Master Control screen will become

available, showing your new factory to the right of the master control icons. You will came to
use this screen a great deal as the plot unfolds and your colonies spread throughoul the solar
system. Good luck!

ADDENDUM

A

Extracts fram “Principles” Vol. XX1, Or, O Trout
Chapter 4
" and

b have atready mearsed on the principles of tnterplanetary propulsion. You

can see that the time taven fo travel from one planet to another /s well within the le
span of @ human being,
However, using the sare propulsion system over the distances to neighbouring stars

would not be practical, for such exploration a crt which could approach the speed
of licht would be necessary. This in itself would create new orablems,

For the sake of my explanation we shall take Proxima Centauri as our example, a star
same four fight years distant, Le@ Mf takes light fram this star four years la reach us.

You would imagine that a ship travelling at the speed of light would take four years
to reach the star. Well, irs is only true as long as you accep! thal time passes at
varying rales.
To an observer on Earth, the ship travelling to Proxima will take four years to com-

plete ls journey, In fact, the physical mass of the shig wall take four years. However,
as the ship approaches the speed of light, time begins fo pass more slowly. Nat only
do clocks slow down, but everyihing else is affected: the atomuc processes we clis-

cussed earlier are slowed, including the mental and metabalic processes of the crew.
To the crew everyihing would seem normal except that lhey are ageing mare slowly

than those on Earth,

Wher the ship arrives at Proxima, four Earth years will have passed, bul due to the
effects of time dilation il will seem like anly weeks lo the ship and its crew!
Remote cantral computers for such crf would require that they remain in the same
time frame. For example, if our ship yeas to return directly to Earth at the speet af
fight
would arrive eiht years inte the future of our Current fee frame! Contra!
would be lost resulting in the probable destruction of the cralt.

Of course, TOO% light speed ts not actually attainable, but something approaching it
ee

awe dhe dlesined effect Ceancider She formulae fon”

Chapter 5
* bul we have already proven that full ligh! velocity is unreachable. Perhaps 99.9%
is the maximum ever attainable.

I shall expand upon my theories a little later, but you wall see that ance ligh! speed is
approached it is a simple matter to exceed if, never actually reaching the velocily of
fight iself! i shall prove (hal any mass can travel al less than, or faster than but nol
equal te Une speed of Ifeht,

For the lime being | shall reverl to my earlier discussion of time dilation, We have
seen that ime slows as we approach [he speed of light, {ft would seen natural! to as-

sume that time would simply stop at this magical velocity, And beyond it? Back.
wards ?

Ayperlight travel would allow a ship to travel back and forth between any locations
in the universe, acfving in any time frame it wished. Remote contral computers

would ao flanger have the problem of lasing track...”

ADDENDUM

B — GLOSSARY

ACL.

Auto Cargo Computer

AULA,

Asteroid lining Attachment, Used for Surface Mining on Large Asteroids

AOC.

Auto Cperations Computer

Bandaid

Surface Station Repair Equipment

Blaser

Electromagnetic Pulse Laser

Blaster

Sonic Pulse Weapon

CommsPaxd

Special Pod incorporating a Communication Linit

Cryo Poel

Pod tor transportation of Personnel held in Stasis

OFC.

Grone Fleet Control Computer,

Derrick

Automated Ore Recovery and Refining Unit

Drane

Computer Controlled Warcraft

E.T.A,

Estimated Time of Arrival

FuzLaser

Thenmea-nuclear Fusion Laser

G Chassis

$0.6 Chassis

G Drive

$0.07. Drive L nit

Grapple

Equipment for retrieving Small Asteroids of up to 2501

Hel

Heliun-Geuterium

Fuel

Fuel

Hyperlight.

Hyperlight $peed Travel

| Chassis

|.ChS. Chassis

| Drive

1.5, Drive Unit

[ Orene

Grane built fram a 1.0.5 Chassis

1.5.

Interplanetary Operations Spacecraft

MeH

Fuel

Methanol-Hydragen Fuel

OF Frame

Chrbital Factory Section

OF

Cvbital Factory

P.T.L.

‘Prejudice’ Tonperio Launcher

Prison Pod

Special Cryo Pod modified to prevent escape of Occupants

R Frame

Surface Station Section

5 Chassis

Shuttle Chassis

5 Drive

Shuttle Drive Linit

4 Drone

Grane built froma $00.0 Chassis

$.C.0,

Star Class Galleon

5.0,

Self Destruct Mechanism

Shuttle

Surface To Orbit Service Ship

Supply Pod

Pod for haulage of raw materials

Tool Pac

Ped for haulage and Mounting af Tools or Equipment

Activision Limited 90-Oay Warranty
Artivision watantste Che original cansumer purchaseral this compiler seftaare pesthecd had the recerding medium on which the soipeeane pio
gram & mecedient will bas free (rar defects in miaterial and workmanship fer 90 clays fram the date af purchase. I the cecoreling mweeliurtt is
fourel defect? within 80-day of original purchaser, Achwision agnor nooneplace. net ol chars, any product discayered In be defective within
Such perigll up sia aT Ss Factory Service Corer eH lhe praxducl, postawe pail, wih peal
cd dale of puatchase, as kang, as Ot percepts ib Sill
heing manililactured by Activision. fake eect tat the peogeand one banger aeailable, Activisian retains lhe ght to substitute a sirnilat pedWeb
equal Gr grein walkie,

This warranty is lemited Inthe cenerding medium containeng the sefhwaer peegram originally proyvicksl by Activision and is net applicable ner.
fal wear arkl tear, This waeranty Shall ree Ee: applicaldtic
ard sfall be wai
he defect bas arisen
implied wannntess anplicahle ta this product are limited in ihe belay period descritesd aleve,

thigh ahiise, risheatinie, or neplecl

Any

Toe rece a ct placement, you Stxakl enclose all the original preadect disks and the manual inthe eeipinal peaduct package or aller pelective

packaging, 2ocompanied by
6 a brice slatted cesccibing the clefect.
= ynUr name and relumn ackiness. and
4a phetocape ef your dated aaks receipe,
Please
see fhe special “RETURSS. idounnatian tor further iasiructions.
ihe nucabet shown in the dront of this manial
EXCEPT AS SET FORTH

ABOVE. THIS WARKARTY

li you hawe any cussing, eeu may Call Adivision Cocsumer Sereicesal

25 IM LIEU OP ALL OTHER

WARRANTIES,

WHETHER

ORAL OR WWRITTEM,

EXPRESS OR

MELE, INCLUCKMG ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY CR FIFNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ANT MO OTHER REPRESENTATIONOR OLASOF ANY KIND SHALL BE BINDING
S2RCIAL INCIDENTAL, OR CONSE WIEN TIAL DAMAGE

ON OR OGLIGATE ACTIVISH
WS. IM AC EVENT VELL ACTIVIESOR BE LIAaBLE POR
RESLILTINS FRO POSSESSION, USE, OR MALFUNCTION OF THIS PRODLACT,

INCLUDING DAMAGE TO PROPERTY AND, TO THE EXTENT PORMITTED BY LAW, DARIAGES FOR PERSONAL INJURY, EVEN I
AC TISIOM HAS GERM ADVISED OF THE PCRSORILETY CF SLASH CWS
SOME STATES OO SOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS
Os! HOW
THM

OF IMCICKES TAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL

Tye Ay RT APPLY TOOL,
VARY PRON STATE TCR STATE.

DOR

AM [MPLIED WARRANTY LASTS AMDIOIK THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITA

CMAMWAGES, SC) THE ABOVE

LIMITATIONS ANDVOR

THIS WARRANTY GIVES WOL! SPECHEC LOGAL RAGITS, ANDO

EXCLUSION

GR

LEYWTATIOR Ox ELAHEL-

Away HUAWE CXTHER REGHTS WiHECH

RETURNS
Certilied mail is reccnimeded dar returns. Bor best sereicg, please fe sure lo—

Sead all the orginal product disks and the manual inthe original packoping. if available, or ther protective packaging,
Enclose a phistecogy of your dated sales pesceip,
Enclose aur name and reba achieess, hyped oe printed clearly, insick: the package.
Foclose a brie

nee aescribineg the rales)

ete beer Gente

pied with the sett are.

Write the name of he urexhect and the heard and mecdel name of model number

af your compuier an che frant
af tee naickage.

Send ba:

WARRANTY REPLACEMENTS
ACTIVISION

FLIRCIFE

BP 4a)
S200)

Foulogne-Hdlancast,

Hance

AyEB| Lit FEN

Sov

geno

ACTIVISION

