MISSION NUMBER ONE: BUILDING ORBITAL STATIONS.
If you build more than five (5) stations, the methanoids will attack you!
If your engineers are not qualified enough, build something else in the meantime. The same principle applies to navigators, the more they travel, the higher their ranking, the more complex equipment they will be able to use.
As soon as you can, build on each station a production computer (PC), they are much quicker than any human expert.

Train some personnel for production and navigation. Research all you can. Build 7 derricks and a shuttle (structure, nacelles, propulsion). With the tool nacelle fitted, containing one station unit, take off and deploy it in Earth space, SEVEN times. Research all three new objects and fit your shuttle with a ship computer (SC), that’s handy. Program your shuttle so that it brings from Earth on the station all the material it can, as well as human resources. When the production team is up and ready, bring it onto the station.
When ready, build the spaceship structure, its propulsion group, mount a grapple and take off. Activate it, you will handle an unknown object, bring it back, and research it. Then research all five new items. You will have to go near asteroids to bring back some palladium, platinum etc. to be able to build asteroids mining facilities (AMF). A ship fitted with two freight nacelles, a SC and an AMF can probe an asteroid, land, mine and get back home without pilot…
Build a station on the Moon [Moon is worthless, go somewhere else]. The ground structure is already set up but needs repairing, so build a ‘band aid’ to do so. At this point only you may build more derricks to get up and running. Get a shuttle with a SC to bring from surface to orbital all the material on its own.
Otherwise, for stations, you need 8 elements to build one and then build 2 ground structures. Once this is done, build a PC, a shuttle fitted with a SC and that’s all you need. Later, build several spaceships fitted with SC to balance materials from planet to planet. You MUST do that, although this is long, because otherwise you won’t get enough material to construct drones for the upcoming battle with the Methanoids.

[One point to mention: do choose planets which are independent in terms of fuel, i.e. They need both hydrogen and methane].


MISSION NUMBER TWO: FIGHTING THE METHANOIDS ON THEIR OWN PLANET.
Send a ship with a grapple where Methanoids are (for instance Uranus). An alien will give you an object to research this will implement a ‘CommsPod’. Do come back with nacelles full of deuterium (to get helium or other material) and a CommsPod a few times. At some point, an alien will warn you of the war coming up and will provide you with a laser prototype for you to research.
Then a coded message will show up on your screen, do not worry, these are far-away aliens from another race and they are peaceful. Do research what you have.
Once you build your sixth station [remember, you have piled up materials in your other five, have you?], methanoids will declare war. Build drones on each station, a ship fitted with a drone computer (DC) and lots of fuel (these ships consume 10 times as much as the others). Launch it into space, go to the DR and get as much drones as you can (200).
Save your game and attack one alien planet, land on it and get back to space immediately for these cunning aliens have fitted EVERY of their stations with a self destruct device (DD). You may research it to fit it as well on yours (handy). If you fail the attack, resume the game and start over.
Next time you land on an alien planet, you will be able to defuse the DD. Then you will discover one of the most brilliant station feature you can get: a “transfer computer” (TC) that can automatically balance all stations with the same amount of material.
Attack all alien planets in this solar system. Protect your stations, the Earth in particular for you will loose if taken over!


MISSION NUMBER THREE: RECOVERY OF THE UNKNOWN OBJECT FROM THE GALAXIES.
Eight new galaxies are within your reach. Each one of them holds one piece of the unknown object given by the far-peaceful aliens. This is the key to ending Deuteros. To get one piece, you need to take control [or destroy?] of all the Methanoid stations in one galaxy.
When this is done in one galaxy, you will get a message from your friends letting you know where it stands. Get a ship, a grapple and get it! Research it and carry on with all the remaining galaxies.
Once you have researched all eight pieces, you may build it [not from Earth?] and launch it from one of your ship to win the game and watch a nice graphic conclusion.
The deeper you get in the game, the more weapons you will have, i.e. a blazer, an automated ship with such a powerful laser that it can destroy an entire drone fleet in one single shot (you loose the ship though) or a Prejudice Fuel Torpedo that utilizes your onboard fuel to destroy some ormany drones at a time (that may include yours). Watch out for the pirates that will come and plunder your precious material etc.