Deuteros: The Next Millennium is the sequel to the sci-fi strategy video game
Millennium 2.2, published by Activision for the Amiga and Atari ST. Ian Bird
designed and wrote the game, with graphics by Jai Redman and music by Matt
Bates.  Overview

While the game shares themes of space exploration and resource gathering - plus
some elements of its interface - with its predecessor, the two are different in
gameplay.

The object of Deuteros is to mine and manage resources, explore the Solar System
and beyond. For this, 3 categories of civilians are trained: Producers,
Researchers and Marines, out of a pool of 6000 population. The longer these
teams are used, they are advanced in three levels, required for some later
action (some inventions can be manufactured only by a producer who is at
"Expert" level while Pilots with the rank of "Admiral" will be more effective in
battles).

New bases built on other planets must be staffed with new teams of Producers in
order to construct the shuttles and derricks needed for supply. Some of these
events are "milestones" which will trigger new technology to be researched by
the scientists.

The player has to take care mostly of the transaction between the planets and
the factories and distribute their supply with shuttles and long-range
spacecraft. New technology (such as automation computers or teleport) will
replace some of the player's involvement, as the player must later concentrate
on war.  Scenario

The game is set some 800 years after Millennium, in a time when mankind has won
the struggle to make the Earth habitable again but lost its spacefaring
capabilities, when the Martians, moments before they were defeated in Mars, hid
a small robotic fleet just when Earth was re-settled, and destroying the Moon
Base moments before humans returned to Earth as a final deed of vengeance. Eight
centuries later, the humans attempt to reach space travel again and rediscover
old secrets.

Initially the player has Earth resources with which they can build ships and
orbital factories. The first factory will give the player the technology to make
IOSs (interplanetary operations spacecraft) which they can build orbital
factories over selected planets and moons of the Solar System. First the player
can use the IOS to extract material from asteroids not found on Earth (such as
silver, platinum etc.), and later build bases on the selected planets with the
orbital factories so that exotic material is steadily produced.

In the process the player will meet the Methanoids, colonists from the first
game who declared independence when Earth was re-settled. Now they dominate
Trans-Neptunian space and act secretively, only allowing the player to swap
mined goods for materials they need.  War

Once the player builds a sixth orbital factory (or gets the Methanoid laser from
trading a lot with the Methanoids), the Methanoids will declare war, and in the
process the player will have to research and manufacture battle drones and also
copy the self-destruct mechanism of the enemies. A teleport system (for
inanimate objects) will be discovered that will eliminate the need for supply
IOSs.

Once the player conquers all of the solar system, they will discover some alien
messages and a blueprint for faster-than-light travel. New technology will allow
the player to construct SCGs (star-class galleons) and travel to Proxima
Centauri, the first of the seven star systems that have to be conquered. In the
process the technology "Hyperspace travel" will be acquired.

Winning requires conquering 8 systems and collecting of 8 parts of a mysterious
machine scattered by Methanoids.

Upon winning, the game ends with a mini video clip that shows three
picture-slots with icons and pictures of in-game objects changing every 3
seconds accompanied by the main music of the game. 