Philipp Druyts
unread,
Jul 27, 1999, 7:00:00 PM
to
Hi

Has anyone a complete solution of Deuteros ?

Thanks

Philipp (phi...@village.uunet.be)

Nate Daken's profile photo
Nate Daken
unread,
Jul 27, 1999, 7:00:00 PM
to

Philipp Druyts <phi...@village.uunet.be> wrote in message
news:7nkort$8b$1...@xenon.inbe.net...

There is no solution to Deuteros! You have to keep plugging away until you
win! I will give you these hints though:

Do not build a third orbital space station until you have built up quite a
substantial supply of drones. I think it is the thrid station, maybe its
the fourth. Methanoids will attack you once this station is built.

The Methaniods have a base around Jupiter. You will gain some alien
technology if you go there, but only do this before building the third or
fourth station.

Take full advantage of the asteroids! Mine them for as much as you can. I
believe Aluminum is always in demand, and tends to run out when building
equipment. Set the autopilots to automatically mine and return. Sticking
some green pilots on mining missions is a great way to get them Admiral
status in a short amount of time.

You need 8 of the special artifact pieces to complete the game.

One of your top pilots will turn into a pirate and help the Methanoids, so
be careful!


This truly is a great game. I have yet to find one like it for the PC.
Wish I could.... I have a save disk from when I completed the game, took
about 250 hours, if I remember correctly. Yea, I was addicted pretty bad.

Have fun!

Lurker at the Threshhold's profile photo
Lurker at the Threshhold
unread,
Jul 28, 1999, 7:00:00 PM
to
In article <7nlfr6$7...@nnrp3.farm.idt.net>, Nate Daken <Mug...@idt.net> wrote:
>
>Do not build a third orbital space station until you have built up quite a
>substantial supply of drones. I think it is the thrid station, maybe its
>the fourth. Methanoids will attack you once this station is built.

Actually I believe it is the sixth station that triggers the declaration
of war.

More importantly, you cannot even research drones until after war has
been declared, so trying to build them up in advance is futile. Instead
you should build up a surplus of essential metals (don't remember the
list offhand, the platinum varients, iron, and aluminum come to mind
as the critical ones). I actually left my Amiga running overnight one
game, with system ships ferrying materials from base to base in an
effort to build a balanced stockpile. Next morning everything was near
maximum, at which point I had a waiting ISO place the last piece of
the sixth base to start the fun.

>The Methaniods have a base around Jupiter. You will gain some alien
>technology if you go there, but only do this before building the third or
>fourth station.

The Methanoids have several bases in the system, any one of which will
result in gaining a useless communication translation device and quickly
afterwards trigger a war. IMO this is not the route to take to start
the war - better to have six bases up and running. Better still to have
several ships stationed ready to complete bases 6, 7, 8, etc at the same
time, assuming you can cover that much territory with your defenses.

>Take full advantage of the asteroids! Mine them for as much as you can. I
>believe Aluminum is always in demand, and tends to run out when building
>equipment. Set the autopilots to automatically mine and return. Sticking
>some green pilots on mining missions is a great way to get them Admiral
>status in a short amount of time.

The best way to pump experience is simply put the pilots on ground base
shuttles - even if they are autopiloted. You get a lot more trips in a
lot less time that way. Putting them on an asteroid flight (or other system
hop) might be required to get them that final step to admiral status (can't
remember for sure, could be like interstellar ship jumps are required to turn
admirals into warlords).

Asteroid mining itself is a good tactic, required if I remember correctly
for some rarer materials without building an otherwise useless base on some
rock for them. But I didn't have much success addressing ISO drone material
demads with them - its just too damn slow. You have to start your asteroid
mining fleet out early, hunting for those specific materials, and even then
you're just slowing the bleeding down. Its no substitute for having a base
on a planet / moon that supplies those materials, never use an asteroid
fleet as a replacement for such.

>One of your top pilots will turn into a pirate and help the Methanoids, so
>be careful!

Thats a may, not a will. Only a pilot on interstellar ships will turn
traitor, and only in certain circumstances (not sure what they are - I
actually had to work at getting one of them to turn, just so I could
see what the fuss was about. Even then I never figured out what to do
after you get the bastard into the prison pod). Considering system drones
are cheaper than interstellar ones, and with a Warlord commanding them
they are just as effective, I can't see why anyone would use interstellar
ships for anything other than taking over the first base in a new system.
And after the jump, the Admiral is now a Warlord, so moving him off the
insterstellar ship and onto the system carrier (sent via transporters
to the newly captured base) is a no brainer.

Damn, all this makes me want to bust the game out again. Too bad my
monitor is on the fritz. In over 15 years of computer game playing
I've yet to see a space strategic-economic game with more atmosphere
than this one. My guess is even today this game could get a PC conversion
without any additional flash and still make decent sales figures. If I
ever meet the programmer (Ian Bird, I think), drinks are on me.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
- Robert Stetler, k...@netcom.com "A friend said he was into astral -
- projection, but I told him he was out of his mind." -
------------------------------------------------------------------------


Nate Daken's profile photo
Nate Daken
unread,
Jul 28, 1999, 7:00:00 PM
to

It's been almost 10 years since I beat this game. My memory on details is
not that good. You hit the nail on the head more accurately. Thanks for
cutting through my fog!

I too would love to see this program re-done for other platforms. I have
never seen a game that even comes close to this in gameplay. My son was
playing it a year ago and it was like watching myself....


Adrian Hurt's profile photo
Adrian Hurt
unread,
Aug 3, 1999, 7:00:00 PM
to
In article <7nloj3$9...@dfw-ixnews17.ix.netcom.com> k...@netcom.com (Lurker at the Threshhold) writes:
>In article <7nlfr6$7...@nnrp3.farm.idt.net>, Nate Daken <Mug...@idt.net> wrote:
>>
>>Do not build a third orbital space station until you have built up quite a
>>substantial supply of drones. I think it is the thrid station, maybe its
>>the fourth. Methanoids will attack you once this station is built.
>
> Actually I believe it is the sixth station that triggers the declaration
>of war.

That's my recollection, too. I had stations at Earth, The Moon, Leda,
Callisto and Ganymede, and three more under construction among the moons
of Saturn.

>>The Methaniods have a base around Jupiter. You will gain some alien
>>technology if you go there, but only do this before building the third or
>>fourth station.
>
> The Methanoids have several bases in the system, any one of which will
>result in gaining a useless communication translation device and quickly
>afterwards trigger a war. IMO this is not the route to take to start
>the war - better to have six bases up and running. Better still to have
>several ships stationed ready to complete bases 6, 7, 8, etc at the same
>time, assuming you can cover that much territory with your defenses.

I did both. Once my first five bases were operational and the next three
almost ready to go, I started trading at Jupiter. Eventually the Methanoids
decided to start a war; maybe they got bored with all the chatter. At this
point, three ships which had been waiting for this moment went round the
Saturnian bases dropping off modules, engineers and materials, and shortly
thereafter, the three bases went on line.

> The best way to pump experience is simply put the pilots on ground base
>shuttles - even if they are autopiloted. You get a lot more trips in a
>lot less time that way. Putting them on an asteroid flight (or other system
>hop) might be required to get them that final step to admiral status (can't
>remember for sure, could be like interstellar ship jumps are required to turn
>admirals into warlords).

They can become admirals just by being in the automated surface shuttles.
They don't need to go on interplanetary journeys.

> Asteroid mining itself is a good tactic, required if I remember correctly
>for some rarer materials without building an otherwise useless base on some
>rock for them.

As I recall, the asteroids could not supply some of the really rare stuff.
They can supply extra titanium and aluminium, and they get you your first
silver.

>>One of your top pilots will turn into a pirate and help the Methanoids, so
>>be careful!
>
> Thats a may, not a will. Only a pilot on interstellar ships will turn
>traitor, and only in certain circumstances (not sure what they are - I
>actually had to work at getting one of them to turn, just so I could
>see what the fuss was about. Even then I never figured out what to do
>after you get the bastard into the prison pod).

It must be a Star Class Galleon and it must be fitted out as a carrier. The
first trick with the pirate is to look at his bridge; you can't touch anything
but you can see where he's going and when he will get there. Then you take
off all his cargo pods. I think you can do this even if you have no prison
pod. That prevents him from stealing your materials.

Once he's locked in the prison pod, you have to leave him there. It's a
waste of a SCG, although you can put some of your other "souvenirs" on the
same ship. Or you can be evil, send the ship to the nearest Methanoid base,
leave it there, and let them kill him. :-)

-- 
"It'll be alright. I've done this before." - M. Garibaldi