Marcus Augustus Alzona
Feb 13, 1993, 3:01:38 PM
to
Can anyone help me with Deuteros? Or can point me to a help file?

I just keep dying via the methoids after the 5th colony

Thanks,
Marcus


------------------------------------------------------------------------
Marcus Caesar Augustus Alexander Laurence Hamelin Alzona
mar...@cmu.edu ma...@andrew.cmu.edu mal...@sei.cmu.edu
Fairfax Apt 715, 4614 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, (412) 683-2816

+-=* Hear much Techno/Rave on "Happy Fun Ball" with Marcus *=-+
+-=* On Mondays from 3pm-5pm this Spring *=-+
+-=* Only on WRCT Pittsburgh 88.3 FM *=-+

Marcus Augustus Alzona's profile photo
Marcus Augustus Alzona
Feb 14, 1993, 1:42:45 PM
to
Excerpts from netnews.comp.sys.amiga.games: 12-Feb-93 Deuteros Help by
Marcus A. Alz...@CMU.EDU
> Can anyone help me with Deuteros? Or can point me to a help file?
>
> I just keep dying via the methoids after the 5th colony

Actually, I got past them. When does this game end - any spoilers?

Marcus
0

Marwan Taher's profile photo
Marwan Taher
Feb 15, 1993, 9:29:40 AM
to
In article <EfTNK5S00...@andrew.cmu.edu>, Marcus Augustus Alzona <Mar...@CMU.EDU> writes:

|> Actually, I got past them. When does this game end - any spoilers?

Let me see, you said you built up your 5th colony? Did you defeat and capture all the methanoid colonies in our solar system? Once you do, a whole new bunch of systems open up, and its a whole new ball game. Assuming you're still in our system, you have about double the time you spent so far to go. I liked it a lot and hope for another sequel.
By the way, although I finished the game, there was a subplot I couldn't finish. That of the rebel captain. I built a prison pod and took it to the system he was in, but how do you plave him in the pod. Anybody done this?? Please respond.
Marwan

John D Harris's profile photo
John D Harris
Feb 15, 1993, 2:18:05 PM
to
>> I just keep dying via the methoids after the 5th colony
>
>Actually, I got past them. When does this game end - any spoilers?

You need to build the IOS drones for defense. Ultimately, you will need
to attack their installations using a DFCC ship and lots of drones. You
get something really neat when you capture one of their stations.

IMO, the game does not end, it just stops. Nothing of interest happens at
'the end', and it takes a long time to get there. You have to progress
through nine solar systems, and wipe out all the Methanoids in each one.
I'm not saying this is a bad game. You will get more new devices
throughout the game that will make your progress easier and faster. But I
recommend that if you reach a point where you aren't enjoying the game
play, don't force yourself to keep going just so you can see what's at the
end.

The speed of progress in the game is directly tied to how fast you can
make drones. Where I got the most enjoyment from the game was in
designing a network of resources and production to crank out the maximum
possible number of drones. The planets you settle are a key to this
production, since raw resources will be the prime limiting factor.
Aluminum is what you will have the hardest time keeping in stock, followed
by Titanium and then Iron. When you settle planets, find ones that
contain as many of these elements as possible.

Let me know if you want additional help, hints, or spoilers, either here
or via EMail.

John Harris
jha...@cup.portal.com

Marwan Imad Taher's profile photo
Marwan Imad Taher
Feb 15, 1993, 3:54:02 PM
to
The way I defeated the methanoids was with a whole bunch of save game disks and a LOT of luck. Capturing two of their stations at the start is a must. The first one always blows up, but if you look at the self-detruct device, you can research and build it and find out how to turn it off. This enables to capture a station and keep it. This will give you the teleporter device. Not only is it a fast way for interplanetary trade, it also sucks up resources from the planet onto the orbital factory. A big bonus.


Build transporters in all your stations and setup a whole network of supply routes. Specialize your factories according to the minerals on the planets. What the got the most of that you need, send it exclusivly. Manufacture drones only in earth, the moon, and mars, because they are the 'inner circle' tactically. Later on, when you have a lot of resources you can manufacture all over. Tinker with the system till you have highest effiecency possible.
The first strikes on your factories are the toughest, once you defeat them, it gets a bit easier. Just keep a good stock of save games to fall back on if things go wrong. The dates the methanoid attck on are usually fixed.
As for going to another system, try to enter a planet with no methanoid base there, and setup one of your one. Use that as a transport station and beam over all the drones you need to fight the methanoids in that system. After you capture the system, move on to the next following the same pattern. It gets a LOT easier after the first couple of systems.
The game does not just stop, it has a definite end. Crack the alien code (easy) and you get instructions for making a machine. Build it and use it and the game ends in a neat sequence. I found it gratifing. (Well it was better than the usual ' Congrats. You have won. Please reboot' :).

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| \ |
| Marwan Taher (Marawana, \ Favorite Famous Qoutes: |
| Marijuana) \ "I drank what??", Socrates dying words. |
| email: tah...@rpi.edu \ |
| \ "STOP STEAMING UP MY TAIL! What're you |
| ------------------------- \ trying to do, WRINKLE IT??", Bugs |
| | | \ Bunny |
| | Insert Funky Pic Here | \ "...and CANCEL CHRISTMAS!!", Sheriff |
| | | \ of Notingham |
| ------------------------- \ |
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Marcus Augustus Alzona's profile photo
Marcus Augustus Alzona
Feb 15, 1993, 3:19:18 PM
to
Actually, the way I defeated the methanoids in our solar system was to
just let the days fly by while I got earth, moon, mars, venus & mercury
stockpiled with supplies for IOS drones. Then, when I made the fifth
colony, I could produce 5 full battle fleets and wipe them out.

Unfortunately, I guess using so much time/years made every fleet I met
contain 200 drones. Also, even though I destroyed all the colonies, my
planets are still getting attacked by battlefleets of 200 drones, and I
don't have enough raw materials to produce enough additional drones to
drive them away.

Is there a relation to the number of methaoid colonies and the number of
battle fleets they have after destruction? Or is it that there is a
battle fleet for each one of my colonies...or two, rather. They
attacked mercury twice(at 200 drones), then the moon(twice). Do I have
to prepare for venus(which is next but I haven't won since I dont have
the drones) twice, then earth and jupiter twice? WHat am I doing wrong?
Will this go on indefinately?

Also, I noticed that when I sent a inter-system ship to Proxima(a battle
ship) they also had 200 s drones to meet me - is it because I waited so
long that everywhere is fully stocked?

How did you tackle the problem of defeating the methanoids in our system?

Wasting time,
Marcus

P.S. Thanks

Marcus Augustus Alzona's profile photo
Marcus Augustus Alzona
Feb 15, 1993, 5:45:51 PM
to
Excerpts from netnews.comp.sys.amiga.games: 14-Feb-93 Re: Deuteros Help
by John D Har...@cup.portal
> You need to build the IOS drones for defense. Ultimately, you will need
> to attack their installations using a DFCC ship and lots of drones. You
> get something really neat when you capture one of their stations.

Is there a way to capture stations? WHenever I land on a station, it
blows up....

I do know that there's a lot more to discover, since almost half of the
possible production markers are empty....

The inner planets(plus jupiter for helium -> Earth->MeH is what I'm
working with....

Marcus

Marcus Augustus Alzona's profile photo
Marcus Augustus Alzona
Feb 16, 1993, 4:51:48 PM
to
Excerpts from netnews.comp.sys.amiga.games: 15-Feb-93 Re: Deuteros Help
by Marwan Imad Taher@crocke
> Build transporters in all your stations and setup a whole
network of sup
> ply routes. Specialize your factories according to the minerals on the
planets.
> What the got the most of that you need, send it exclusivly.
Manufacture drones o
> nly in earth, the moon, and mars, because they are the 'inner circle'
tactically
> . Later on, when you have a lot of resources you can manufacture all
over. Tinke
> r with the system till you have highest effiecency possible.
> The first strikes on your factories are the toughest, once you
defeat th
> em, it gets a bit easier. Just keep a good stock of save games to fall
back on i
> f things go wrong. The dates the methanoid attck on are usually fixed.

Actually, capturing a station opens up lots of opportunities with the
teleporter.

However, I've found that I'm now in the same bind...I captured all the
stations except the first(which blew up). Now, the methanoids are
attacking me with 200 IDrone fleets(1400 strength). I can't keep up
with their attacks.

It seems that they move in a definate pattern, working up the station
list. After they are repulsed from my last station twice, they attack
the previous station on my list...(i.e. Pluto twice, then triton twice,
etc). At about titiana I start to loose the capability to defend(I use
Sdrones to insure victory - 200 drones=2000 power - but, I can only
crank out about 30-40 between attacks, while they kill about 80 per
attack). I've run out of Titanium & aluminum, like everyone's said.

Is there something I'm doing wrong? I can think of a few things that
might make the fleets so huge:

a) Tough it out a little more and they'll disappear/lessen
b) They have to attack each station twice before they run out, so dont
take most of their stations & you'll have to fight them off less.
c) Before making my fifth colony, I spent A LOT of time building up
minerals on my 4 planets...which gave them a lot of time too.

Any ideas?

Thanks,

2fvm...@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu's profile photo
2fvm...@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu
Feb 16, 1993, 6:05:48 PM
to
In article <QfTjqaW00...@andrew.cmu.edu>, Marcus Augustus Alzona <Mar...@CMU.EDU> writes:
> Actually, the way I defeated the methanoids in our solar system was to
> just let the days fly by while I got earth, moon, mars, venus & mercury
> stockpiled with supplies for IOS drones. Then, when I made the fifth
> colony, I could produce 5 full battle fleets and wipe them out.
>
> Unfortunately, I guess using so much time/years made every fleet I met
> contain 200 drones. Also, even though I destroyed all the colonies, my
> planets are still getting attacked by battlefleets of 200 drones, and I
> don't have enough raw materials to produce enough additional drones to
> drive them away.
>

To keep the Methanoids off your butt, build an incomplete station on the
outermost planet/moon of the system. They seem to attack in waves of
three and move on to the next planet, so eventually they'll get around
to trying to attack the incomplete station and can't. At that point,
their attack waves are stuck and they'll leave you alone in that system. ;-)
John D Harris's profile photo
John D Harris
Feb 16, 1993, 8:08:20 PM
to
>Unfortunately, I guess using so much time/years made every fleet I met
>contain 200 drones. Also, even though I destroyed all the colonies, my
>planets are still getting attacked by battlefleets of 200 drones, and I
>don't have enough raw materials to produce enough additional drones to
>drive them away.

The fleets do gain in size over time, so it is an advantage to prepare as
quickly as you can. At some point in the game though, (and I reached it
before cleaning out our solar system even though I wasted almost no bulk
time), all enemy fleets will contain 200 drones. They will also continue
to attack every system even after you have captured all their planets, all
the way until the end of the game. The best thing you can do is make sure
your battleships have your most experianced pilots. It has a big effect
on the strength per drone of your fleet. Never leave ships idle when they
can be making journeys and improving your pilots to Warlord level.

When you get the opportunity to build the torpedoes, the timing of when
you launch them makes a big difference in how many of their drones can be
wiped out in one shot. You'll be able to easily win all the fights at
that point, assuming you are making enough drones. Until then, I know I
used saved games to replay fights that didn't go too well.

>How did you tackle the problem of defeating the methanoids in our system?

I created stations in order of best resources. After the moon, I think I
went right to Ganymede. There may have been a Mars or Mars-moon station
in between there, I can't remember. I built quite a few IOS ships, and
had them ferrying Aluminum and Titanium from the asteroids. The planets
with the most resources were building drones, with supply ships ferrying
the missing elements. I always had enough resources to build drones
faster than their attacks, and when I had a big surplus, I could capture
another of their stations. I captured their stations in order of best
resources too.

I know I did some cheating, when I got attacked in an area that I wasn't
prepared for, I would go back to a previous saved game and move a warship
there. If you want to take it one step further, you can hit the time
advance and wait for the next attack to occur. Then write down that
system and time index, go back to your saved game, and you'll know where
to defend and how much time you have to prepare.

>The game does not just stop, it has a definite end. Crack the alien code

>and you get instructions for making a machine. Build it and use it and
>the game ends in a neat sequence. I found it gratifing. (Well it was
>better than the usual ' Congrats. You have won. Please reboot' :).

I did understand the alien code. There's an interesting bug that lets you
decipher it almost immediately. I built the device that you collect the 8
or 9 pieces for, and using did put an end to the game with a message and a
small animation. I can't remember why I found it so un-satisfying.
Perhaps after spending so much time playing the game, I wanted to at least
find out who the aliens were, why they were interested in me, and what
they were going to do once I made contact. It's nice to know someone was
satisfied at the end. If I missed something, please let me know.

R.W. Moore's profile photo
R.W. Moore
Feb 17, 1993, 1:24:04 AM
to
To defeat the initial drone fleets send against you in the solar system
allow your resources to build up at your factories for a few hours (real time).
Then build your 5th factory and as soon as drones become available build them.
To capture a methanoid factory, dock and then click on the PANIC icon. This
gives a picture of a self destruct mechanism. The first time you do this you
must leave immediately but your scientists can then invent a self-destruct
mechanism themselves! With this new technology the next methanoid factory
you dock at can be captured, simply go the the 'PANIC' screen and then
click on the 2 levers in the right order (it switches around later on in
the game!). The factory is now yours!

When all the methanoids in the solar system are dead you will still get
attacked by rouge fleets (all 200 drones strong!) but these attack factories
in sequence starting from the outer most one and gradually moving in after
a varying no. of attacks. To increase your drone strength build an
interstellar drone ship send it to a nearby star and capture a methanoid
factory there (2 drone ships is a safer bet). You will now find that the
ship commander's rank is 'Warlord' (if it was Admiral originally). Placing
this warlord in charge of a normal drone ship increases the drone strength
from 7 to 10, this is really neccessary as the methanoid fleets around other
stars have fleet strengths going up to 2000. (Tau Ceti actually has twice
as many fleets as normal, so beware!)

Everytime you conquer an entire star system you get a new invention OR event!
I have managed to complete the game but so far have been unable to capture
the renegrade pirate with the prison pod or to find a use for the sonic
blaster which your scientists develop (I suspect the latter may not have a
use since it takes tons of resources, looks like a juke box and plays a
silly tune when you turn it on!)

Hope the above is of some help.

R. Moore

Marcus Augustus Alzona's profile photo
Marcus Augustus Alzona
Feb 17, 1993, 4:48:14 AM
to
Excerpts from mail: 16-Feb-93 Re: Deuteros Help by John D Har...@cup.portal
> I did understand the alien code. There's an interesting bug that lets you
> decipher it almost immediately. I built the device that you collect the 8

How?

Oh, and by the way....the method of building one part of 8 of a station
works fine...I guess they were already "on the way" to Pacific when I
made a third station in the system, so they still attacked it....now(I
suppose) they are waiting for me to complete the third station....which
I wont do...makes things simpler.

Is there an order to the things you discover? For instance:

Proxima: Part of device & hyperspeed
Centauri: Part & PTL
Barnard:??
Lalande:
Sirus
Cygni
Procyon
Tau Ceti

Should I go through the systems in order(from the transfer listing)? Or
are there certain systems that, when taken first, will give me a greater
fighting capability for taking the others?

And, what's the PTL(I think thats the name) do for me really? An easy
way to convert fuel for a fight? Kills about 50-100 drones, right?

Marcus

P.S. Thanks a lot for all the help everyone.

Marcus Augustus Alzona's profile photo
Marcus Augustus Alzona
Feb 17, 1993, 10:03:53 AM
to
Excerpts from netnews.comp.sys.amiga.games: 16-Feb-93 Re: Deuteros Help
by R.W. Mo...@cus.cam.ac.uk
> factory there (2 drone ships is a safer bet). You will now find that the
> ship commander's rank is 'Warlord' (if it was Admiral originally). Placing
> this warlord in charge of a normal drone ship increases the drone strength
> from 7 to 10, this is really neccessary as the methanoid fleets around other
> stars have fleet strengths going up to 2000. (Tau Ceti actually has twice
> as many fleets as normal, so beware!)

I guess it will still be a race to build drones, which I've had enough
of already....the trick of (in Sol) starting an incomplete station
worked great - all attacks in Sol stopped. I tried it in Proxima, but
Pacific(second colony, with the third being the incomplete one) was
still attacked. Atlantic hasn't been touched, so that might be it.
Does Warlord status raise the power of SDrones as well?

Is there any purpose to keeping a system after its event/device is
found? What strategy I think I'll take is not defending stations after
I take a system...just destroy the station(slash & burn, I guess). My
Sol core is "safe" by the incomplete station bug/feature/trick....

Marcus

Scott L. Bonen's profile photo
Scott L. Bonen
Feb 17, 1993, 12:37:22 PM
to

Did you know before your go to war with the methanoids that you can dock
at there station and trade raw materials???

Scott
-- 
Scott L. Bonen
bd...@Cleveland.Freenet.edu
John D Harris's profile photo
John D Harris
Feb 17, 1993, 9:45:49 PM
to
>I use Sdrones to insure victory - 200 drones=2000 power - but, I can only
>crank out about 30-40 between attacks, while they kill about 80 per
>attack). I've run out of Titanium & aluminum, like everyone's said.

Sdrones are too expensive to make. You can make almost 3 Idrones for the
same materials. Are you using Admirals in your drone fleets? I thought
they raised the power above 1400. As someone else mentioned, getting a
Warlord pilot in charge is the best, and will give you 2000 power fleets.

You may also not have the optimum configuration of stations with the best
resources. Examine the solor system map, and if you find any unsettled
planets that contain Aluminum or Titanium, destroy one of your own
stations that is not producing any, and resettle on the new location.

>a) Tough it out a little more and they'll disappear/lessen

No. This doesn't happen until you destroy/capture all of their stations.

>b) They have to attack each station twice before they run out, so dont
>take most of their stations & you'll have to fight them off less.

I suspect it may be the opposite. Taking more of their stations leaves
them with less resources to build with.

>c) Before making my fifth colony, I spent A LOT of time building up
>minerals on my 4 planets...which gave them a lot of time too.

They had a lot more than 4 planets, so in the same time, they might have
built up substantially more than you did. I'm not positive the game is
modeled this way, but it might explain things. All I know is that I
attacked very quickly, and I never had a problem creating more drones than
I needed for both defense and offense.

-----


>I have managed to complete the game but so far have been unable to capture
>the renegrade pirate with the prison pod or to find a use for the sonic
>blaster which your scientists develop (I suspect the latter may not have a
>use since it takes tons of resources, looks like a juke box and plays a
>silly tune when you turn it on!)

Renegade pirate? Prison pod? I finished the game, but never saw anything
like this. Can you explain this a bit?

I agree with your assessment of the 'juke box'.

R.W. Moore's profile photo
R.W. Moore
Feb 17, 1993, 11:49:01 PM
to
Warlords have no effect on SDrones strength, but captains do (they reduce
it!) I found that by picking my factory locations carefully and by setting up
a mattertransport ring in each system which shared materials thoughout and
which concentrated drones at certain planets, I could easily defeat anything
the methanoids could throw at me especially with the PTL (discovered later).
After about your 5-6th star you get a detonation laser which makes defence
trivial as long as each factory has an IOS hull & engines and one of these
lasers in storage. Simply construct the ship, arm with laser, launch then
press the fire button! The ship is destroyed but then so are ALL the
methanoids, and it takes far fewer resources then approx 100 drones.

Roger
R.W. Moore's profile photo
R.W. Moore
Feb 18, 1993, 12:05:19 AM
to
In article <75...@cup.portal.com> jha...@cup.portal.com (John D Harris) writes:
>Renegade pirate? Prison pod? I finished the game, but never saw anything
>like this. Can you explain this a bit?
>
The renegrade pirate can appear when you have conquered star 3 (+/- 1). To make
him appear you need a single Sdrone ship with a Warlord in charge. This ship
must be placed at a planet where there are no other ships present and then,
given time the Warlord will desert. A few stars (or it might be time based)
later your scientists develop a prison pod which I don't know how to use....
maybe the juke box will help!! The pirate ship is also not attacked by any
of your own ships which is a bit annoying. The pirate himself will just
keep docking at one of your factories, remove some resources and then fly to a
methanoid base. (In fact another criterion for the pirate to appear may be that
you need a system where both you and the methanoids have factories and that
the ship is in that system)

Roger.

Marcus Augustus Alzona's profile photo
Marcus Augustus Alzona
Feb 18, 1993, 12:14:12 AM
to
Excerpts from netnews.comp.sys.amiga.games: 17-Feb-93 Re: Deuteros Help
by John D Har...@cup.portal
> Renegade pirate? Prison pod? I finished the game, but never saw anything
> like this. Can you explain this a bit?
>
> I agree with your assessment of the 'juke box'.

In the 3rd-to-last system one of my three warlords(that I used to take
systems) became a pirate & docked with methanoid stations. After
putting two of your ships in the same system as the pirate & noticing
that nothing happens, you get a prison pod(well, for research). To
capture the pirate, you have to get all the methanoid colonies except
two(any two). Go to both & destroy the fleet. The pirate will be at,
say, methanoid station A(in orbit) and after you take the station(A), he
will goto station B. After he engages engines(In transit), take station
B & send a prison pod to it...then launch from B so the priate can dock
when he gets there. goto the space dock on B, and increment the time
day-by-by. WHen the pirate docks, if you touch his ship or do anything
like taking out fuel, removing parts, he books to the next star system.
However, you can move him to the crew bays, then you can replace one of
his pods with a prision pod, then put him in it...and voila! he's in!
Rememebr that to get him in the pod, you have to click on him, then
click the pod away(to lock it - click on him, he goes in the pod for
about 1/2 a second then gets out).

I dont know what to do with him after....did it say "complete victory"
when you won? (I've finished it).

The Blaster is useless. I put it on the same ship as the pirate - maybe
it will annoy him....i dunno.

Marcus Augustus Alzona's profile photo
Marcus Augustus Alzona
Feb 18, 1993, 11:50:15 AM
to
Excerpts from netnews.comp.sys.amiga.games: 17-Feb-93 Re: Deuteros Help
by John D Har...@cup.portal
> I agree with your assessment of the 'juke box'.

Oh, BTW....I think the juke box ties into the story in the manual on the
Methanoid music & their playing their song while destroying the
Hydroids....

Marcus

P.S. I had hoped to meet/be allied with some imprisioned Hyrdoids in the
game....oh well...

Carl Chavez's profile photo
Carl Chavez
Feb 18, 1993, 4:31:35 PM
to


Hehehe...I never captured him either. However, I killed him easily. For some
reason, you can still control the pirate; so I flew him to stars until his
fuel ran out.....MUHAHAHAHA!

Anyway, an easy way I found to make good stations was to allow the Methanoids
to take over a station, and then take it back (they will only have 50 or so
drones). There will be a fully-functional teleporter and self-destruct.
I'd build the stations over a really good planet (aluminum, iron, copper, etc.)
so I'd get the maximum amount of stuff.

I also set up my teleporters to share materiel with at least 5 other planets
so I could build 6 IOS drones every 5 turns. One planet would also build Star
Drones. No problem with the sneak attacks; I had a pool of IOS drones on Earth,
200 drones around my stations, and PTL launchers. I found PTL launchers most
effective when the red blips were clustered together (I'd kill 50-125 drones at
a time, with a loss of 5-30 of mine). Once I had 200 Star Drones, I'd take
over a planet in a star system, teleport my entire pool of IOS drones there
along with an IOS chassis, drive, and MeH fuel. Voila, in 5 turns I have a
fully-defensible position. The last things to do are to put the Starship
Warlord into the IOS drone, and fly the unmanned Starhip back to Sol (don't
forget to teleport some DeH fuel!).

Of course, most of this teleporting is moot once the Laser Blaster is finished!

I was disappointed by the ending...but the authors are supposedly working on
the next game (Amiga Power, May 1992).

John D Harris's profile photo
John D Harris
Feb 18, 1993, 9:30:23 PM
to
>> I did understand the alien code. There's an interesting bug that lets you
>> decipher it almost immediately. I built the device that you collect the 8
>
>How?

Save the game right when you get one of the alien transmissions. Then
when you restore that game, there was a way that you could get the game to
print out one of its internal messages, and it comes out in the alien
font! I think it might have been trying to restart the game with no disk
in the drive. Or perhaps save the game with no disk in the drive.
Something like that. Since you can see what the real text is by doing the
same thing when you haven't received a transmission, it's easy to make a
cross reference. Actually, it doesn't help your situation in the game.
You still have to wait for your scientists to break the code before
anything can be done about the messages.

>And, what's the PTL(I think thats the name) do for me really? An easy
>way to convert fuel for a fight? Kills about 50-100 drones, right?

Kills 50-100 drones. If you fire at the right time, you will still have
most of yours, and can win the fights easily.

One more thing on that laser defense system mentioned in another message.
Both the laser and the ship frame can be transported anywhere you want,
even after the attack is announced. Provided some of the equipment is
split between multiple stations so they can be teleported at the same
time. It gives you complete freedom from attacks. (Don't send a pilot up
in one!)

Warren Baird's profile photo
Warren Baird
Feb 19, 1993, 8:25:17 AM
to

I've been having some problems with the game also. I've captured all
the methanoid stations in the solar system, and in Centauri, and I can
send SCGs from Earth to Centauri, but when I try to send them from
Centauri to Proxima, or from Centauri to Earth, the crafts are
destroyed as soon as they arrive at the destination system. What am I
doing wrong?

Any ideas or tips would be appreciated.

Warren

wa...@vax.oxford.ac.uk's profile photo
wa...@vax.oxford.ac.uk
Feb 19, 1993, 1:52:01 PM
to
Sure, but how does one actually complete this sub-plot i.e. how do you
capture the pirate and return him to the fold..... The jukebox appears to
be just a gag.... Anybody got the answer?

I won (or at least completed) this game without solving the pirate
sub-plot, and it's pissing me off - I hate an unsolved problem.

Bill Bennett
CRC Growth Factors Group
wa...@vax.oxford.ac.uk

John D Harris's profile photo
John D Harris
Feb 19, 1993, 8:35:01 PM
to
>I've been having some problems with the game also. I've captured all
>the methanoid stations in the solar system, and in Centauri, and I can
>send SCGs from Earth to Centauri, but when I try to send them from
>Centauri to Proxima, or from Centauri to Earth, the crafts are
>destroyed as soon as they arrive at the destination system. What am I
>doing wrong?

Are they running out of fuel? Have you received the instructions for
hyperlight speed yet? I know that is required for the longer trips.
There isn't any reason why a ship could make Earth to Centauri, but not be
able to get back -- as long as it was fully fueled at Centauri.
Marcus Augustus Alzona's profile photo
Marcus Augustus Alzona
Feb 20, 1993, 12:54:55 AM
to
Excerpts from netnews.comp.sys.amiga.games: 19-Feb-93 Re: Deuteros Help
Adrian Hu...@cs.hw.ac.uk (1383)

> You can now put the pirates into the prison pod - but they just come back
> out. Can anyone figure out a way of locking the pod?

Yeah...he jumps out because you don't lock it....just click your right
mouse button immediately after you click him into the pod to close the
pod screen. He's now trapped in the pod...if you access the pod while
docked in any station, he can escape....but, you can check on the pod
while in space, and it will say it has the pirate in it....

Marcus

Adrian Hurt's profile photo
Adrian Hurt
Feb 20, 1993, 3:08:29 AM
to
In article <h50...@rpi.edu> tah...@rpi.edu writes:
> By the way, although I finished the game, there was a subplot I couldn't finish. That of the rebel captain. I built a prison pod and took it to the system he was in, but how do you plave him in the pod. Anybody done this?? Please respond.

I can get him into the pod, but the scientists were lying - he just jumps right
out again.

Find out where the pirate ship is going. You can always get onto its control
screen, you just can't control anything. Also find out when it is due to get
there. Just as it is about to dock, go to the station where it is docking
and advance time once, so that you are there when it gets in. You may now
access the pirate ship's modules. You can also remove the pirate crew from
the ship. Remove a cargo module, fit a tool module, and fit the prison pod.


You can now put the pirates into the prison pod - but they just come back
out. Can anyone figure out a way of locking the pod?

In the absence of anything else to do, I just remove all the pirate's cargo
modules, which at least prevents him from stealing my materials. He still
messes up the programming of the matter transmitter, though.
fit the prison pod. Go back to the

-- 
"Keyboard? How quaint!" - M. Scott

Adrian Hurt | JANET: adr...@uk.ac.hw.cee
UUCP: ..!uknet!cee.hw.ac.uk!adrian | ARPA: adr...@cee.hw.ac.uk

wa...@vax.oxford.ac.uk's profile photo
wa...@vax.oxford.ac.uk
Feb 20, 1993, 11:22:17 AM
to
>> You need to build the IOS drones for defense. Ultimately, you will need
>> to attack their installations using a DFCC ship and lots of drones. You
>> get something really neat when you capture one of their stations.
>
> Is there a way to capture stations? WHenever I land on a station, it
> blows up....
>
> I do know that there's a lot more to discover, since almost half of the
> possible production markers are empty....
>
> The inner planets(plus jupiter for helium -> Earth->MeH is what I'm
> working with....
>
If you completely take over the Sol system i.e kill off all the Methanoid
bases (or perhaps just a percentage of them, I can't remember exactly) you
should find that you are able to research a "Self-Destruct device". Once
you have this you may find capturing stations a bit easier... (TOTAL
SPOILER BELOW). Persist in your martial ambitions. Stock up VERY heavily
before bulding your sixth OF and thereby starting the war.

Bill Bennett
CRC Growth Factors Group
wa...@vax.oxford.ac.uk

Once you have researched the self-destruct device, you can dock with a
captured enemy OF, click on the icon for the self-destruct and click on the
two "antennae-type" things to switch off the self-destruct and capture the
station.

D J Ford's profile photo
D J Ford
Feb 20, 1993, 11:02:24 PM
to
In the referenced article, Mar...@CMU.EDU (Marcus Augustus Alzona) writes:
>
>How did you tackle the problem of defeating the methanoids in our system?
>

Note that the Methanoids ALWAYS attack the station on the further-
most planet out from the star.

So just build an indistructable station there.

It can be done.

Dave Ford

mcsd...@dct.ac.uk's profile photo
mcsd...@dct.ac.uk
Feb 22, 1993, 5:32:04 AM
to
> I did understand the alien code. There's an interesting bug that lets you
> decipher it almost immediately. I built the device that you collect the 8
> or 9 pieces for, and using did put an end to the game with a message and a
> small animation. I can't remember why I found it so un-satisfying.
> Perhaps after spending so much time playing the game, I wanted to at least
> find out who the aliens were, why they were interested in me, and what
> they were going to do once I made contact. It's nice to know someone was
> satisfied at the end. If I missed something, please let me know.

Really???I thought it was one of the more satisfying ending's to a game....
But is that just me.....Of course they couldnt show u they aliens or why
they were interested in u (I think they were lonely). If they did that then
they couldn't have made Deuteros 3 , could they???
Just a thought....

-Stef-

Adrian Hurt's profile photo
Adrian Hurt
Feb 25, 1993, 11:39:29 PM
to
In article <8fUeeYS00...@andrew.cmu.edu> Mar...@CMU.EDU (Marcus Augustus Alzona) writes:
>
To
>capture the pirate, you have to get all the methanoid colonies except
>two(any two). Go to both & destroy the fleet. The pirate will be at,
>say, methanoid station A(in orbit) and after you take the station(A), he
>will goto station B.

This turns out not to be the case. It does not matter how many Methanoid
stations are still around, or with which one the pirate is dealing. All
that is important is that you find out which of your stations he is heading
for, and arrange that a prison pod is there waiting for him.

> goto the space dock on B, and increment the time
>day-by-by. WHen the pirate docks, if you touch his ship or do anything
>like taking out fuel, removing parts, he books to the next star system.
>However, you can move him to the crew bays, then you can replace one of
>his pods with a prision pod, then put him in it...and voila! he's in!
>Rememebr that to get him in the pod, you have to click on him, then
>click the pod away(to lock it - click on him, he goes in the pod for
>about 1/2 a second then gets out).

As has already been mentioned, you lock the pod by pressing the right mouse
button immediately after putting the pirate into the prison pod.

>I dont know what to do with him after....did it say "complete victory"
>when you won? (I've finished it).

I have tried various experiments to see if I can put the pirate somewhere
else, to no avail. If you remove him from the pod, he will jump back onto
the bridge of the ship at the first opportunity - you can't remove hin,
leave him at the base and launch the ship without him. You can't put him
into an ordinary cryo pod. You can't put him into a shuttle. You can
cripple the ship by removing its drive while the pirate is in the prison
pod, but you can't scrap the ship while the pod is occupied, and the pirate
won't let you scrap it while the pod is empty.

If you're feeling particularly vengeful, you can destroy the ship with the
pirate in the prison pod. Make it try to jump to another star without
enough fuel, or send it to a Methanoid base and leave it there. There's
a sort of poetic justice about letting the pirate's former friends execute
him. :->

Otherwise, you're stuck with one ship that must always carry the occupied
prison pod. Mine carries the other special items as well - the sonic
blaster, the comms pod and the alien "Unknown" item. A sort of flying
museum.

Peter Brooker's profile photo
Peter Brooker
Feb 27, 1993, 10:05:14 AM
to
Mar...@CMU.EDU (Marcus Augustus Alzona) writes:
: Can anyone help me with Deuteros? Or can point me to a help file?
:
: I just keep dying via the methoids after the 5th colony
:
: Thanks,
: Marcus

:
:
: ------------------------------------------------------------------------
: Marcus Caesar Augustus Alexander Laurence Hamelin Alzona
: mar...@cmu.edu ma...@andrew.cmu.edu mal...@sei.cmu.edu
: Fairfax Apt 715, 4614 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, (412) 683-2816
:
: +-=* Hear much Techno/Rave on "Happy Fun Ball" with Marcus *=-+
: +-=* On Mondays from 3pm-5pm this Spring *=-+
: +-=* Only on WRCT Pittsburgh 88.3 FM *=-+
Right here is a little thing i found out....It doesn't want to be read by any bo
dy who doesn't want to cheat at this game at all....Here goes.

Choose an enemy base you want to attack, go to set course and remember what the
eta is, work out how many days it will take to get there. Fuel the ship with the
same of fuel units as days. Now launch and engage engines. You should run out of
fuel just before you get there, you now start drifting towards the planet, don't
worry. You should now be able to dock with the enemy station. Dock and turn off
the self destrust system (If it is your first visit doing as I have described yo
u cannot turn off the self-destruct system and the base blows up, you should now
be able to research the self-destruct system when you have finished researching
repeat as above), go to stores via icon and it will look very wierd. You should
get a message after a few days about researcghing an MTX this lets you teleport
stuff between bases. You should now never have to build a drone as each base you
take as I have described has 200 drones waiting to be taken by you. Have fun..

A cheat for this game as well :- Hold down Caps-lock and press 'c' twice. (This
might not work).

Any probs mail me.